"[ no ]"
"i feel that the parole board the some of the people chance after chance and they keep coming back """" these are the that stay in trouble while they are . but the that never get in trouble and follow the and go to school and do to better themselves never get the chance at parole ."
"yes bit"
"most are full of ."
"i never considered the prison population or prison reform before i came here . plus i never considered socioeconomic that predisposed people to become"
"to change in my life"
"the have used to i to vote now i would if i could"
"its made me look at the way of life so differently"
no
"the importance of my vote for the and people that are good for our government ."
"i see now that they really do not care"
"prison reform would affect the state ' s criminal in a huge way . as of now , this facility does not discourage from ."
"my perspective is different"
"no comment"
"now i see the need for it"
"[ no ]"
"yes , i believe that our western democratic . political arena is a failure . and fraudulent misrepresentation of everything that it itself to be while working towards the fulfillment of its own corrupt and clandestine the welfare of not only the populace but also of the world itself as a whole ."
"voting is one step forward but it more than that . participation and being involved is how we make true change !"
"i have always known that no system is perfect , but there are some that are more and more than . especially the that are most """" out of sight , out of mind ."""" i had no idea how many people ' s live have been drastically by this justice system in such a way that it is . this is by the fact that these people ' s are also severely affected . this system needs an overhaul . along with many other . we need to work together more and compromise for """" the greater good ( or cause )."""" we need to analyze and interpret more thoroughly . be more open - minded . talk with - not at - each other . there needs to be more at redemption and change . don ' t go by the . talk to people and find and amplify the good ."
"i have been able to look through a different set ."
"when i came to prison 22 + yes ago i was a and ' t understand politics at all i ' t know what the of government were or what they did what conservative or were"
"prison is where i found the lord and now all of my world is totally correct ."
"keep to myself"
"i have seen how insensitive we can be to each other and other people ."
"i would like to believe that i have become more aware of social and our world in general ."
"i have come to be more libertarian in my outlook on politics ."
"i see how politics people throughout our nation"
"because now i can see from the other side ."
"yes mouthing gig gubernatorial juju"
"justice system does not work ...... mass punishment , if you don ' t have a lawyer no justice"
"i now listen to both sides before forming an opinion ."
"i grew up thinking everything was always clear cut . i thought if it ' t republican it ' t right . what i ' come to understand is that during times of recession we need a democrat for bottom up economics in order to stabilize the economy . once we need republican trickle down economics to grow the economy . not an idiot like bush but a trump ."
"going to put it this way so much is going on these days make you think the world is fit ! to end ."
"now i ' m more progressive ."
"i have a different outlook on now"
"that ' s a hard question . different political people have and but now i ' m and see from a different perspective . prison reform is my biggest issue right now !"
"i never really attention to what was going on in the prison system until i and seeing first hand the politics that are involved in . the get a percentage of everything that in here ."
"i seen how much my voice can be a factor in"
"i was in the army and that the did the right thing but after being of a felony , i see they only want what is best for them ."
"i did not care about much of anything before coming to prison but now i have been thrust into seeing the pain in the hearts of and have been given the love to want to help and a plan on how to do that . change needs to come to the way are done and because i see that now , do i see the need to vote as more important than the attitude of not that i used to have . as the saying goes change to start with me !"
"it is simple trump"
now
"' t matter"
"because we have to make a great decision on who fit right in place to take care of their business , and not lie about ."
"i ' m not sure it ' s just because i ' m . it probably more to do with the fact that i ' been here over 25 . i ' m a lot older . i see much differently now as to the idealistic young girl who first . the girl who always saw the best in and really were trying to solve the country ' s . i ' m a realist now and realize that the world is never going to be a utopia . and are like in a sandbox with two and only one shovel . neither bucket is getting filled because they are too busy and over the shovel ."
"before incarceration i was too busy with my and my own to care . since had time to slow down without worldly distraction i have come to understand that this is not and it is very important for me to care and to teach my to care ."
"i tend to be a little more liberal"
"i ' m more willing to listen to opposing now . w"
"the president really done good job what he done"
"is different view"
"i once in gun ownership . but when i my abuser with a gun , i knew had there not been a gun in our house i would have never him . i would have never had the heart to stab him , . but a gun made it impersonal , easy and quick . now he ' s dead and i ' m here . also , i got locked up in 2003 , before school , another huge reason i want all ."
"i ' t really have a political view or i . q . before coming to prison . i just never attention to that issue ."
"i thought differently about criminal justice , now i have seen for myself the unfairness of and many people that are actually mentally ill and locked up without the help they need . also this prison is not on rehabilitation , it more like a human warehouse . i have many of these ' s and am by the time they are serving . no matter what the crime , people should be given a second chance , not a third , fourth or fifth chance , but a true second chance if they have proven to the authority through their behavior and through their institutional record . they deserve a chance to be back with their and to prove they can be a law abiding citizen . there to be prison and reform , too many are depending on it ."
"i just honestly feel that me or anyone that is a drug addict should be given treatment for our disease of addiction instead of for several , taken from our , extra stress on our to tend to our and support us"
"i stand more on the republican side but still have democratic ."
"i have become more informed since my incarnation because of reading"
"i used to believe in the system . now i see too much corruption . in all ."
"just needs to change they are profiting off of us we are their livestock"
"i have actually more conservative than i was even though it the opposite would be more likely"
"because it ' s all always being the same"
"before i got locked up i had no interest in politics or voting . now i have more interest in politics because i realize that everyone ' s view and vote matter ' s ."
"yes now i understand how to make a difference starting with myself first . i have always been told i could not vote and i know that is a lie . i want to have a say so in who should be in what office . i want to vote for people that will make for the people and not for there benefit ."
"being locked up you different perspective"
"my coming to my faith in my world view which my political ."
"because there ' s no political voice speaking up for the"
"i ' t truly have twenty ago , it e with time . i am not positive if it is from incarceration or just age ."
"i now have a more clear view of thing because my mind is right because i have been off and it took at least two of being locked up for my mind to get right"
"since i have down in my life and pay attention to everything going on i wish i had the ability to vote ."
"more liberal now ."
"when a person a conscientious decision to accept as both lord and savior all change because they are henceforth a spirit - filled that according to the progression of one ' s spiritual knowledge and revelation ."
"i was very young when i got locked up as i have gotten older and watched how horribly wrong everything gotten out there it made me want to get involved and learn more so when i get my second chance i will be able to make a difference"
"people need to be more serious about what is wrong within our country . for example mass incarceration , homelessness , hunger and the ever growing oppression of the poor and . the public needs to be aware of how we have turned into a police state and the only way to do this is through our political system thus i am more conscious of politics now more than ever ."
"the way the law works needs help ."
"i could have less about politics when i was younger . now i pay more attention to the news and believe that i am better informed to make the decision that i could care less about the that are with the responsibility of taking care of our country . and we as a country wear our too much on our """" sleeve """"."
"i wish i still"
"when i came to prison at the age of 23 i was a die hard democratic , after 45 of incarceration i can clearly see how the democratic party used and the poor and those of color ."
"i almost ' t have a political view when i got locked up . but since then i ' been forced to be around people who are very different from me both """" racially """" and culturally . and i ' that while there are many between my life and theirs , there are many many more fundamental than . we all ( or most of us ) love our and want to vote for who are going to do the best for them since our personally are pretty much toast now ..."
"i ' learned how the world work"
"now i see how society does not want to give people a chance"
"before being , i strongly felt that a woman was not capable of running this great country of our ' s ."
"because my life chang i can see what life is really about now"
"before been , i only saw to my own problem ' s , meaning that i the that affected me to be of higher priority . now i see that as a community we need to work on to achieve our while helping those around us . this change how i see the that our nation today . before i used to supporter a particular political party just because they support one that i feel strongly about without about the rest of their political . however , now i tend to look into what each candidate and not just vote for one party regardless of there ."
"yeah somewhat , i would love to see a lot of change"
"i was raised to trust people . i was raised in a church and a good home a only child . married a good man and had 3 great . i thought all was honest in . but a lady that worked for us in our grocery store had her husband and the pa made a theatrical play and found us guilty . we never any one . my husband was dressed from the supreme court , his wife was a supreme court justice is that time . i was given a new trial and received a life sentence and have been here 40years so yes my political have . only god me to survive . sorry i so long ."
"i have become more and more concerned with the fight against the agenda and their hatred against , and i am more and more aware of anti and our need as a nation to stand by and with ."
"now i am more concerned with our government and our country ' s incarceration .. it through government ."
"well before prison i never political i just to family an took on their political . however i research myself now an come to my own conclusion ' s upon what my research ."
"trump is out of there"
"i am more open minded"
"i think it should be someone in their care for their and is willing to help in all"
"cause it that all people have a a chance to vote to have a opinion"
"the law is just as corrupt as a person that a white collar crime"
"i know that my political have since being , because i came to prison at 20 as a first time offender , had never read a book on my own , with add , was raised in a domestically abusive household , and i 10 of severe sexual abuse by my boy scout leader . i ' t know what to believe about myself , , the world , and certainly not politics . i was more concerned with not being in prison , how i would survive facing life without parole with all those , and emotionally i ' t in a place to contemplate those in power outside of those that had hurt me in similar . it took me 23 to be able to share the truth about what during the , what lead up to them , and begin to discover who i am to consider what i would have in someone shaping legislation . i think that after fighting to learn and grow there is a inner belief that should fight to keep the government growing , too ."
"if we don ' t vote then we can not complain about who is over our life to vote is a chance"
"i still dislike politics in general , but i see more of what me and what ' t ."
"before i was to prison , i was pro - death sentence . now i see the with the system and i have no faith in them to get it right ."
"i have become more conservative in my , although i believe : people in need should receive assistance ; life are immoral ; no one should suffer from hunger ."
"i was not very interested in politics when i was not now i am"
"my political since being because i have grown a lot since i been . being taught me how think first"
"because when news comes on their either talking about a mass shooting with assault or some police just shot another who was unarmed !"
"no need"
"its because more people are on war and politics then trying to become peaceful and united"
"and go hand in hand . like ignorance and fear walk hand in hand . is part of law and reform . money is a law and legal as well as thing . is about the world better than you found it . how can this be done if your not involved in the very foundational thing that a nation great . the right to put what you can do into action . voting is such a thing ."
"now , that i pay more attention to politics , i understand that the and both have good point of when it comes to particular political ."
"i am not this question"
"i used to be mostly liberal now i ' m conservative"
"i ' m sober now and what is going on out there really to me"
"i use to think if you were in prison or had been that you should not have the right to vote"
"i no longer believe in life for any offense other than in unusually brutal and depraved . either sentence to death or allow a chance for rehabilitation . our criminal justice system is the most poorly ran system in affect ."
"i ' t care about politics then"
"because i pay more attention to politics since i ' been"
"i had totally different about the system before i was . i thought the system was fair and the and were righteous - not !!!! they are bigger than most of the people they lock up . they just simply don ' t prosecute themselves or their ."
no
"over the past 45 . of incarceration i have been more aware of politics . until this president their been very little thought to rehabilitation or release for . ' s focus was on the release of black drug and at a federal level providing them a second chance to repeat the same behavior . president trump more on re entry , education , for those forgotten or left"
"by the way to look at"
"i ' m just more aware of the than ever before"
trump
"because if i would of while i was out of prison just one vote . i never about who got what position . now i do but i will never be able to vote again . because i ' m a lifer ."
"being around , in the system we have a lot that should change"
"i ' gotten into some intense political conversation which expanded my ."
"since i ' been the long i ' seen for people that have to is crazy to people that have violent . people with drug do more time then anyone ."
"i think been in prison my on that needs to be because i have seen the from a different view . more willing to try to get by voting and getting my voice ."
"i have been for almost 30 and have"
"now i feel like it ' t even concern me ."
"yes . quite a lot . however i cannot type the truth , so i ' not type anything ."
"i came to prison when i was 22 old in 1991 with life with out parole . i had not formed any type of political at the time of my imprisonment . all of my and have been formed since coming to prison . even more so since being to death in 2014 ."
"i ' m listen now"
"i know now people just say what we want to here"
"because after being sent to prison i see on a daily basis how people on the inside of get . it ' s almost a constant beat down instead uplifting and people change and being able to change and get a second chance in life . sometimes people are forced into or drug use them into that you would not think of doing under normal circumstance . i believe anyone can change no matter what they have done in there past and will not repeat the same behavior in the future ."
"i was just 20years old when i came here and never much attention to politics but since i got older and are now in my mid 50 s i tend to watch it more ."
""""" yes """" because i learned who is , and god is the way of living ."
"i once was a democrat however , now have become a republican ."
"looking from the outside before incarceration i ' t know how bad and corrupt the prison system truly is . are daily and and this is skillfully hidden from a public that been about most . most are people like those in the free world who just got caught . honestly most people have done something illegal but just ' t caught ."
"when i first got up i ' t even have an opinion , but now i do , as well as a lot of !"
"i care about who is in charge"
"i have become consciously awaken ."
"in my past politics had no bearing , now that i ' m more in - tune ; i ' m also , curious and to make a contribution to society ."
"i ' become more aware of the importance of our as of the united of , and being , of our need to remain free to vote ... we , the people , our country , and our founding originally established our constitution to be simple , sure , and true , and never to be ! since being , i ' learned a lot !"
"i used to care about what the political were before i was but now i see that it does not really matter because the decision in the end will only better the people out the and make worse for us on the inside . so why should we as care ."
"i never really thought about it much before i got locked up . now i thank about it and a lot of other thing that i never really thought about ."
"being a pawn and the corruption of the department of parole board , my have dramatically ."
"being made my concern for politics and the need to express my much more and opinionated . before i thought my ' t matter but now i can see there truly . i know that my for myself and for are compassionately driven for the greater good"
"i never was really interested in politics before prison but now it to be most important ."
"before i was locked up , i really ' t pay attention to the news and the political . now that i have """" more time """" to watch the news , i am more concerned and opinionated"
"i will never vote for a party again , but for with a cause ."
"i use to believe in lock them up and the away the key , but after 27 of this , people deserve another dance at redemption ."
"being in prison shown me that when you take away someone ' s right to vote you take away the only real way they have to change for the better ! there is no true incentive for a political figure to have real reform because they know it won ' t help or hurt them in the ballot box . there is much mistreatment and abuse that goes on in prison which is because there is no to helping the """" worst """" in society . prison is exactly what a socialist system would evolve into because corruption will always find a way in . of coarse this is simply one specific point to a multifaceted set of that extend far beyond prison . but the original point still ."
"are more interested in republican s than doing the job they were hired to do ."
"i think that most people don ' t care about true justice until it them , and i have a broken system from inside the system . i believe that we are behind in prison reform ."
"my incarceration shown me how i took voting for ."
"i was political in the world"
"i have seen how we are used to scare the public . the public is lied to about us . for example , they scream , """" we cannot let out , they will return ."""" true statistics show recidivism for such to be the among , especially if they have spent a time behind ( around 3 %- 5 %)."
"most over a period of time political ."
"because now i see how our country is getting ran in the ground ."
"maturity mostly . just becoming aware of i had no clue of as an adolescent ."
"i was a youth when and really had no political point of view though i am a strong supporter of i ' been lock up for thirty five year ' s and was born again in 2002 which my whole value system"
"i am now a and against abortion and against gay and against gun control and government . i also know about the corruption in the of and the corrupt and police . i am not a inmate . that ' s not why i say these !"
"am much more informed now on foreign policy"
"before incarceration i thought of myself and my as democratic but the democratic party ' s during the current president ' s term not been favorable ( and that ' s being kind ). i do not wish to be associated with a party that is more interested in personal than the public ' s needs ."
"my vote could make a difference"
"while i was free i ' t much think about like criminal justice or homeless , border protection but now i see how those really matter"
"since i ' been i see the republican party doing more to curb the ongoing incarceration trend to help reduce the future trend of needless incarceration for frivolous ."
"we as a people vote for our of office in our community and they vote for the that run our country ."
"yes , due the fact that the political and their corrupt ways of running this country ."
"cause we have no i don ' t agree with that"
"yes i have begun to look for reform"
"i am not the same"
"people are making law ' s for their self not the country"
"i now understand how important my vote would be . i mean , look at what kind of president we have running our country ."
"it shown me that the political is not interested in the individual ."
"can ."
"yes because i want for the to change ."
"i never thought about prison before ."
"being in prison let ' s you see in a different light . i can see injustice done throughout the justice system in . as the are not time structured fairly . being and child as much time as or more time as manslaughter or murder ."
"at first i had no political view know i try to stay informed and watch what is being done for the people ."
"as though its become a political circus act , who can say or perform the while in office ?"
"yes , before i ' t care . since being in prison i ' learned a lot and understand my vote . i was also only 20 old when i got i ' m now 30"
no
"they because being made me pay more attention to what ' s going on in the country and how much policy every person no matter where you are ."
"i am much more aware of the and in"
"in prison you get to see society in a different way , and not all is good , so you see everything in a different manner ."
no
"i am more aware of the systematical that the country is facing . the separation that is dividing this once great nation of ours . the political are fighting against the common interest of the people . there are always a lie to replace some wrong doing , that the mind of the of this nation , to stand up for the majority , which is the poor in !!!!!!!!"
"i ' t thinking bout none of the political in the world cause i ' t understand how important they were"
"i use to be always but coming to prison i see how the are hard to work with the of the struggling and they always make everything complicated ."
"well when i came here i was a 14 year old boy . now i am a 40 year old man on the brink of release ."
"i never before being . i almost received the death penalty , so i have an opinion on capital punishment and it went on from there ."
"i have been ran through the political grinder ."
"because i have become more aware of all the hate since i have been here ."
"before being locked l had no interest in politics"
"i was 18 when i was with an 8th grade education . i ' t know nothing about politics . i have been here in prison 20 now and i know a good deal about politics ."
"democrat ' s and ' t period . by bill still himself the question why do love me so much after the straightforward genocide ."
"i pay more attention to it"
"i identify more with now"
"i am much more open and tolerant of the of and i can see through the con man smoke screen politics and . that ' s what they are afraid of is a voter who can see through their con man ."
"my political have in that i now understand """" taxation without representation """"., to pay tax and even the local tax shown me that the are like the . we don ' t get to vote whether we want to pass a tax to build a new jail , or improve , or tax soft . these are just ."
"i have been sense i was in my and now i ' m in my forties . that being said a lot about my . i am aware of what the world become . and if we don ' t change it will be our downfall ."
"because i have had time to really study politics and the and found that all or nearly all will lie to the people just to get a vote . very few ever do a of what they promise the people that for them . also many in the government think they are above the law and should not be accountable for their . the are suppose to work for the people even the president of the united but as everyone or should know the president that ' s in office now works for only the rich and powerful ."
no
"i am more informed and less"
"don ' t know"
"around me have my opinion because i have lived in this environment for so long it engrained itself in my nature no matter how hard i fought it"
"i was only 19 old when i was and now i ' m 29 . i have , learned , and grown in many ways . that in itself my ."
"i came to prison at 19 old . therefore , i did not have my own political concept , i the of my family and environment . now that i have made my transition from a male to a man , i learned how to individualize my through the process to study to show thyself approval ."
"i watch the news daily and keep up with everything going on in the world but when i was not i ' t watch news"
"yes , because of what been going on around the world ."
"yes i now have experienced what the legal system and know what really from first hand experience ."
"don ' t come back"
"i know now that certain political are against the poor ."
different
because
"i had time to study both , plus i had to think it over ."
"i used to believe that and other of the state about , now been in the system i know that ' s not true ."
redder
"my have dramatically since being because i have been able to learn about the real that face the majority of the prison population . in understanding those i now base my political on the that are trying to reform the prison system ."
"we make a different"
"i realize how important my vote now"
"i ' never had the chance so i ' lost interest cause i ' m a felon ."
"before i had no care about politics due to and not about the state of the country despite family that works for the federal government ( in state )"
"i see that i used to think """" black and white """" and now over time i think political people make a lot of the way they are"
"well , as , i consider myself a progressive . however , being tempered some of my more liberal about crime and reform . this is just from seeing the reality of it from day to day , and how some of the more ' ' are unrealistic ."
"i see more from the poverty level ?"
"i want someone in office that really our best interest at heart"
"yes ! it cause i ' m more aware of my position in life far as what i mean to society and how important i can be in the society far as making a change ."
"i came to prison at the age of 15 so just by growing up inside made me form my ."
"trump a lot of incorrect , off the wall stuff but he how to get stuff done and of course do speak for themselves ."
"i ' m becoming more conservative ."
"bipartisanship our acting in favor of party and not in favor of the people they represent ."
yes
"am not free"
"i want to vote because if we don ' t stand up for what ' s right the world will continue to head in wrong direction . being my to so much . to me society just us in here and us . look at all the child out there and people killing people and then people that get caught stealing or selling or more time than they do . to me that ' s not right . we need rehabilitation for . help learning how lo live normal ."
"the political situation . the are wanting socialist government and that to the type of life ."
"when my were filled with drug use & criminal activity i authority & was very selfish . there are not many people who believe they deserve to be in prison , but i do . i hate that i did not grow up sooner , but i will most likely die in prison . i see the world through different & respect the & . i understand a lot more now ."
"i ' m more aware of political"
"not really"
"before i ' t pay attention"
"i ' m more into it because it ' s the future of our"
"yes , i use to swing more toward the democratic side but now i can clearly see that a lot of their go against and morals . i believe the republican party is more conscience of god . was built upon the morals found in the , yet we seem to have lost our way ."
"i truly never thought much of our until i was up in them . and although we ' t supposed to compare ourselves amongst ourselves , there need to be some sort of standard for consistency of . and ' s parole board become a second jury . as i look around at my and count those who have made parole but can not leave ."
"being it you pay more attention to the going on in the judicial system that you / me . i am force to dig into history and see what worked , what , what political party made the most rehabilitative , and go with them ."
"they have because i ' m more aware of the importance of politics and how they effect everything and everyone , thus making me want to have a say in them because they have an direct effect on the quality of life that ' s being lived in ."
"i went from being a casual observer , to doing in depth and research and coming to the conclusion that i was a independent moderate . i believe in balance and compromise . i agree with the conservative platform of being fiscally responsible , lowering , and keeping government out of our everyday life however i disagree with the conservative ideology of ( yourself up by your ) because there are when people do need a hand up and not necessarily a hand out . i somewhat disagree on their economical concept of ( the trickle down effect ). have repeatedly shown that when do good go to the stock and board and not so much to the everyday working class average joe . i agree with the liberal platform of government correcting the of society but not so much in leftist platform of tearing down the government and starting completely over . since then my political have even more . i now identity myself as a liberal democrat . the"
"yes because i have become a"
"before incarceration i never thought about politics"
"being you to see as they really are ."
"yes because so much since i ' been in the political party"
"no . they have not if any thing i do my best to fallow it more closely as it can effect me"
good
"i ' learned more about it then i ' known before .... i ' t really into it then like i am now ..."
"i look at different"
"i ' m sober now and care about people"
"which party would i choose ?"
"yes , my are always about these ."
"before my incarceration , i ' t have any political"
"the are so unbalanced"
"i have been since i was a seventeen year old girl , so before i had no opinion because i ' t care about or follow politics . now i am to look into what is happening because i hope to see a change or help one upon my release ."
"i am a person not a number and i will vote to make my society a better place ."
"i ' given it much more attention than in the past ."
"maybe it is age but i see through a lot of the propaganda we are exposed to ."
"i have that almost none of what the left does is in my best interest . i feel that they have a grand utopian dream for through like affirmative action and welfare . these do no more than rekindle old racial and divide us further . the left attention , but misleading like racism , to thwart common sense to stem the flow of illegal and from our southern border . these and the terrorist of who profit from in them , are driving in once thriving . the yearly from addiction and death are our dismal economy . the left is on the right track but a little too extreme for me when it comes to the environment . i too believe in ecological , but differ on how to achieve a less culture . consumption demand , and demand is indifferent to the environment . that ' s why there a couple trillion worth of plastic in the"
"i have more knowledge of what ' s going on ."
"i have had time to examine the in the system , i can ' t vote ! i can ' t voice my opinion because i am a felon so i got no right to change the society i am forced to live in and abide by and made by men who are worse than me !"
"well i have more time to really get to understand more then i did when i was out in the streets doing balderdash"
"i was young when i first , so i never had the chance to vote or weigh in on my on the matter . now i am aware of politics and follow them ( however slightly ) , more than i used to ."
star
"i used to be strictly democratic . but the republican party the economy ."
"during fact try"
"don ' t know"
"i use to not care about politics or voting before my incarnation . but now i do believe that i can make a difference in my community by my and my concern ."
"yes i see a lot of stuff that effects"
"well because i have been locked up for over ten and a lot since i have been out in the free world and would love to be able to vote and make my vote count"
"is my master and sever"
"before i for anyone who was ahead in the . but now i actually pay attention to their plan and before supporting them . now it could mean between freedom and ."
"the would don ' t like"
"i actually have some now ."
"i did not care about it when i was out now i can get out but i have no where to go"
"before i came to prison i ' t have any ."
"i have learned what government is supposed to do and not do"
no
"all people want to do is incarcerate and not rehabilitate . they don ' t want to release anyone , just have mass incarceration ."
"i no longer believe in the judicial system , especially . i don ' t believe in the , nor the correctional system in . i feel all should be equal in their and politically no one into and their outdated and ."
"at first i ' t think that my vote did not matter , but now i know better ."
"i use to not care about"
"no one about the that made a mistake in life . were not bad people , we just made a mistake that now we have to make right . right a wrong as it is said !."
"now i respect and pay attention to politics because trump , my glorious leader , my to the importance of conservative family and the bearing these have on the fate this nation . despite all the opposition to his politically incorrect , i feel that his core resonate with mine . i feel that we ' re going to look back on 2020 and realize that we should have to trump on the that were central to his campaign . i also believe that , in a conservative majority to the activist supreme court , he did a service that will continually pay off throughout my lifetime ."
"being in and since how corrupt it is . yes it there needs prison reform"
"since being locked up i have a education . i ' m informed on my life and what voting to that now . incarnation gave me a different and my in society ."
"i look at life for what it really is about and who i am as a person i have taken myself out of a selfish state of mind and come to understand needs should be met before and its not about just one person or one race one city or one state or one country its about making the world a place and facing reality ."
"because when i was in society i ' t pay that much attention to the news , but since i ' been i ' more attention to the direction our society is going . with that being said it more than my interest to let my voice be as it is said ."
"before i was i ' t care about politics , voting , or criminal justice . now i have a personal because i see now how it me and my community . i never watched the news or read the newspaper or what was going on in the world until i got locked up . now i have become an activist for reform for first time violent . my on prison and our justice system drastically been . i am to be a part of the solution not part of the problem . to help people become aware of prison and that can help both and society ."
"now that i can view politics from being a felon , i can now see the lack of understanding or care for ."
"before i never had the concern of being sent to house . i never the astronomical amount of revenue being wasted at the expense of a flawed system . as time went by i most who try to change these broken are met with extreme resistance and are not to fix anything . i have also been given time more time to pay attention to all the political not just that of what i choose to listen to . to read more on all ."
"prior to prison i thought the world me . welfare was awesome . now , i want to be someone who my role as a human being ."
"i have taught myself to become a book writer ."
"cause i was so young when i got locked up that i ' t have a view cause it ' t matter to me now it does i see what is going on in my country and i want a say in it and if i don ' t vote to try to change then i ' t have the right to complain about what is happening if i ' m not willing to help change ."
"i was raised in a republican family , but being on the other side of the criminal justice system made me more aware of the need for rehabilitation than just punishment and of ."
"i have seen so much hate , chaos , confusion with other warped sense of thinking . twisted ."
"it me want to vote more"
"i was a when i came to prison at age 18 . now i am 57 and realize a society only works when everyone is equal and everyone responsibility for themselves ."
"i believe that the length of our are unjust for one . people are not equally for another and are out for themselves also . we have to keep them . _ù ÷"
"i ' t really have any political prior to my incarceration . now , i know we need to vote because it is the only way to hold and accountable which will in turn protect everyone ' s civil . are in fact civil watch dogs ."
"the change i feel it that both party ' s are wrong with there view"
"i used to have a lot more faith in our government and it ' s ability to solve for the common man . but now i see that it ' s more about them talking about what they can do than actually doing them"
"yes because of the ways the president does that are no good for people"
"' t have to"
"it ' t matter if we are democratic or republican . there is to much fighting going on . we need to stop fighting because whether we are democratic or republican . it is tearing apart ."
"i now have time to actually listen to the people trying to be and can generally tell if they are serious about ."
"first time should have lighter than repeat . _ù ÷"
"i see the harm the president then try to work together as a one nation instead make up investigation that take up money and time"
"i went from democratic to really supporting neither . because neither to help ."
"i care more now that i know more ."
"' s"
"i don ' t know really if i have any political towards if i do then there mixed and confused and i ' m not really educated and smart enough to know if i ' m speaking political or not"
"yes but what good are they when you can ' t vote !"
"uneducated on a political abundance when first , i have informed myself of the necessary criteria to form my own ."
"i don ' t understand that problem ."
"only in what in the prison and ."
"because now people think i am just an angry ex con with a grudge now"
"i have the time to watch and keep up with political agenda ."
"i have been for 4 year . that ' s a good amount of time , so yes my political have ."
"well ! upon being i have kept up with the news and our political ."
no
"yes because i didnt nothing about politics period . i educated myself in here"
"i did not care before"
no
"i think differently on fairness for as well as first"
"i look more at"
"i used to think our judicial system was just and fair until i got locked up ."
"yes ! after 15years fighting an unjust conviction and now knowing who the authority to change the law and fast track justice ."
"i had to learn about politics while i ' been here"
"all are full of"
"because now i have watched the news and have more attention to what actually"
no
"star pop in"
"we need justice from"
"i ' d not elaborate"
"our country is in trouble"
"previously i ' t care less about politics concerning incarceration . i never would have this . for example , we do not eat what is on the and we are lucky to even get water sometimes . i even have a grievance about it . they always deny parole for at a time and give such as """" seriousness of crime """" or """" death involved """". those were considered by the judge and the court . that should be double . especially if the inmate stayed out of trouble . is also the only state that no to ever pay it ' s . there were 3 left . i believe ar , al , and . the other two legislation to start by 2021 . had a """" hearing """" and even just a hearing was before it . there are a lot of that have never a honest job . most of them hustle to get like special food . several can ' t have like monthly . chicken , pizza . would it not make sense to pay a very small amount"
"yes , i thought bill was alright because we got out of debt when he was president !!! yes he did some bad thing to but i believe he did or good than bad !!! maybe it was his wife that did it ?? but it we go back and forth with to much !! we need to become a country that ' t split , we need to work together not fight either , it ' s become a country that how less dirty than the other person , look we all have in are closet , it what we do afterwards is what we should be for !!!!!!! and i ' m sure we all are very sorry for them in the closet !!!! because i am !!!!!"
"political people just want money and power"
"never one way or another until now"
"before i was i little to no attention to the news and had no idea what was going on politically or world wide"
republican
"no help for"
"i ' m more interested in political now ."
"well here ' s a slice of it once the system u a label its like a target on your back that ' s always seen and badly like were just not human then they take all are and to top it all off they make these new that effect only which yeah are political do take an turn for a change ."
"because is forgotten when it comes to time , good time"
"our deserve to be and . we have built majority of this country , a number , yet our don ' t count .?!?"
"i wish i could"
"they because prison me to slow down and actually pay attention to the government and the action ' s they put into motion on be have of our country ."
"we that are in prison , should have a vote so we can help keep ourselves out of prison with more help ."
"i got of and to think about and plan for my future which had an impact on my political ."
"i was never really interested in the government until i came to prison"
"i used not care now i do"
"mostly it is a response to election . prior to incarceration i politics , but they were an obscure distant part of life . i non occasion , but only on i really about . the only i ever for was president . but since incarceration i ' learned more about the law , how it us , and what it to be . i used to want to expatriate , but i ' come to the stark realization that change comes from the inside . we don ' t abandon our , we address them . i can ' t leave this country i need to work to create a better future inside or out . so yes , i follow politics , i learn about them , and i strive to get involved however that ."
time
"because i believe that it is very important now on all the going on in the world"
"the ways it is i now feel that certain and punishment should clearly validate the prison sentence and not some moral compass that won ' t matter ten from now . i think that being does not take away from how much i care about where our country is headed it just currently i don ' t get a say , because i do care . when you give a person motivation they do so much better . in our current environment we have no motivation , no to benefit actual sustained change . it ' s work or sit around all day , minimal mental health , and no concern of any kind . change is and it won ' t happen as long as we talk and do nothing ."
"a better outlook now"
"i understand more who i am as a person . see that i was educated as a child . but it ' t the education i received that corrupted me . it was the miseducation that my thinking that persuaded me to make bad decision"
"i made a choice to commit this crime . but this crime don ' t depict who i am only that i my flesh to control my destiny for a period of time that cost me 11 of my life . but i and wisdom that no government or label can take from me ."
"i see from the inside how politics control the ."
"i now see politics for what they are"
"i used to ' t care about them before"
"i care"
cant
no
"neither party are unified so how can they bring the u . s . together"
"i don ' t have a direct answer"
"yes are different behind"
"because used to not care but i do now !"
"before i ' t care about reform"
"i see the big picture"
"this incarceration forced me to look at from a lot of different . for instance our current president is not very popular but despite these fact ' s our economy is doing well because of him ."
"it ' s made me more aware of abroad"
"now that i am a felon with a violent crime i see how society us and even though we are ' t mean we ' t people with real and real that need to be especially inside !"
"yes i think there needs to be reform and against ! me for first time"
"i was never interested in government or the before i got but after being for over two i see how important it is to vote the right into office ."
"is top cause they don ' t care about . their a modern day group of communist ."
"i ' t have any before"
"i am more interested in politics now , and more informed of different ."
"before prison i would ' with being a republican now because republican frown on . i ' m democrat because i ' m a homosexual but ."
"i used to think nothing , politics . now i care more for myself and those around me ."
"them don ' t do for us"
"was a juvenile when . naturally have"
"i have been blessed to know by god"
"i don ' t like the president"
"being me to become more political aware"
none
"because we all have a part in making a better country , personal reflection from reform one to realize this"
"i ' m now more informed about all of the social spectrum . the extra time given me more time to absorb more , and better discernment being absent from social media ."
"my political have since i have been about the government ' s"
"my have because you don ' t know of a situation until your in it , now that you in it you see the of our could care less about the people"
"i have that no one is concerned about those that are locked up for non violent like drug are being for more then people for murder"
"i was ignorant to the made between the male offender and the female . we are more confined we serve longer and its harder for us to make parole plus we don ' t get the skill training to go out and get 20 dollar an hour its back to or working at a cashier at a store if your lucky"
"the way the democratic party is , is the very reason why i would vote republican !"
"i that my voice is more important now because i know what it not to have it , and that it is my responsibility to make sure my are and ."
"i look at in a totally positive way ..."
"i have more compassion for the or the justice system . i feel the country going to about 5 - 10 ago ."
"which ever one is voting to keep level 3 sex locked up . i promise you i ' m against them 75 % of what they write about me is completely untrue . i ' m down the responsible and will prosecute them according to their involvement ."
"my view about the prison system in is against the system that suppose to help me and make me a better person . the people we vote in do not care about us who a lot of time or little , they just lock us up and make us work for free while they make money off us and our . we should get and training and education and life no matter how much time we got to do ."
"i know more about what is of"
"i ' m a sex offender and feel i ' been against and feel my state over look a lot"
"people always say its a race thing come on there was a black president"
"i learned more about my original political in detail and realize i was wrong ."
"i was nineteen when i first got locked up and i never understood politics like i do today . i don ' t know everything but my knowledge & understanding is much better now that i am fifty - six ."
news
no
"i now take time to watch news when before i was too busy or ' t care"
"we are forgotten here"
"pay more attention to political"
"because my vote may be the one that"
"i have become much more cynical and separate"
"now it i should be more concerned about where the world is going so i ' m to voice my now"
"i ' m more aware of the need for criminal justice reform and also the need to facilitate the rehabilitation of and not just punishment so we have a better chance of becoming productive of society once we get out . also i better appreciate social safety and reform since being locked up ."
"the is there is no rehabilitation for us in here"
"because people will get on television and to be something that they ' re not ."
"previous to my incarceration , i ' t really consider the government to be something that i had any control over . then i lost the right to vote , and now i really have no control over the government . sometimes now i feel like my opinion no weight whatsoever . therefor i usually keep it to myself . this survey is the first time someone besides other had any interest in hearing anything i have to say about politics ."
"because my incarceration me to see how unjust the justice system really is ."
"i now see where our prison system is """" busted """". the state us up to be but does nothing to rehabilitate . we can ' t rehabilitate ourselves ."
"i feel like i ' become more informed about where as in the free world i ' t have time to worry about it ."
"wish i had a chance to help create a better way"
"because i watch the news now"
"yes now i see both sides"
"yes i see that more rehabilitation is need in the prison and even before they go to prison"
"when i was out before i i ' t pay much attention , i was always on or working"
"pay more attention now"
"since i ' been i lean more towards prison reform and trying to find more ways to have a better release"
"no i cant"
"i used to believe there was a solid reason to vote .... for betterment .... yet i mostly have seen only political b . s . and ulterior out of the government ..... its sad really .... few people have our best interest at heart that are in those that i can tell .... but i understand you can ' t make everyone happy ... so most only do what ' s important to them .... or for their cause ....."
"since being i have to notice a way of thinking in many people that i can only describe as entitlement , but to me to merely be to do what you want and blame the government for your and to not hold ourselves accountable"
somewhat
unsure
"wow all my have i see people although i still try to listen to the of the people trust but i like trump dad ' t so my mind ' t completely made up by his opinion"
"i was opposed to the execution of before i came down but my on that have . also , i believe that all need to be more in line with their ."
"yah i see the bigger picture"
"my vote could help"
"my judicial system is poison"
"i ' t really care before"
"not for me but for some people they have ."
"made me a better men"
"i never much attention to politics before i was ."
yes
"being here is not a good place to be . i ' d rather be with my family . the sooner i get out the better ."
none
"yes i ' been in prison 16 all federal the state said to be for the use of and the yet we are fed from the bottom of the barrel the housing is poor it the are hardly works and when the the force to do proper paper work paint over rust fungus . its a show all about money so the are who hurt ! medical is the same we attempt to sue only there paper work works against ."
"i have spent more time following the politics of our country ."
"i used to ' t care now i see how it effect everyone"
"i never was really into or anything about politics until i seen what the democratic party was doing to our president . from the time he took office the democratic party done everything in its power to undermine him . this should never have been . did he stick his foot in his mouth at times but all in all he to in force that were in place to protect and their and the people him in office to do just the democratic party from the beginning found it necessary to fight the people from the beginning . this should never have been ."
"i ' m much more aware of the financial , personal , and legal of the """" war on crime """" and the destructive by being """" tough on crime """". a full third of the population been through the criminal justice system . the prison industrial complex that as many as possible are for monetary compensation , and not to people ."
"i ' watched news more and am more informed"
"more interest"
"my understanding since my imprisonment ."
"living with people from different have my to a few of the real"
"yes . i believe the my vote can change the way that are ran ."
"i want better for"
"now i look for any politician that might can help people that are in prison"
"i have become more aware of race , the of white and the debt march of this nation and its"
"since being my political have a lot because i now realize that an offense is why i am . but not being the opportunity to reform or get out is a systematic by governing and private businessman who are profiting from my being ."
"i feel that the justice system is unfair in their some of the are"
"before i was accused and of the crime i was put in prison for , i was not really thinking about the real that someone who gains office could cause if the only thing on mind is money and not the of the public . their are some that only make new as a way to look good in the public eye , with that let unscrupulous district and who that only look to pad their conviction rate so as to look good on election to only make life better for themselves at the expense of ."
"hefty ugh by"
"severe corruption needs to be removed from sheriff ' s / police , county , , tax collection official ' s they are not above the law !"
"i knowledge and more wisdom on a lot of . definitely my and on a lot of ."
"yes i know the government is right"
"i have that they don ' t care for the little person"
"i understand more by meeting new"
"my political in that prior to my incarceration i ' d never the from the established and """" constitutional """" when those are applied to vis - - vis other ethnic ."
"i finally see how the people being in jail or prison getting different due to race background and natural of there"
"the whole justice system and prisoner reformation is in desperate need of reformation to say the least"
"more interest in prison reform and rehabilitation"
"i see both sides because of being on both sides"
"yes u see a abroad of society ."
"more informed"
"i ' learned more about politics while being in prison because i am actually paying attention to that never had any knowledge about before taking college classes and becoming more educated in prison ."
"no one really what to do or how to get done ."
"since being my political have do to the fact i was unaware how much our matter ."
"i meant to answer no"
"i just realize that i have a voice and a responsibility as an to be involved and to know what is going on in my community and beyond and do my part to make it the place for my fellow man"
"i never had one into i"
"i have for over twenty - five ."
"now become a lesser concern since my right to vote been taken away from me a i understand voice know matter in today ' s world ."
"the law ' s and our voting ."
"prior to being i ' t have any political or know anything about politics . i was living life as it came . i was really self absorbed . now that i ' m older people , and the world as a whole more relevant ."
"being i have seen how all in have been put together when sex should not be able to have the same parole guide ass drug or other"
"i know how important it is"
"i have since a white nationalist due to the i have in prison ."
you
"i think most of the older should be and people with drug offense ' s should get the correct treatment"
"paying more attention now"
yes
"i ' learned more due to reading"
"well i used to be a democrat i am now a republican"
"made me realize that the government ' t care about us it ' s all about money"
"if i had the chance to vote i would try to help to change the longer term for some ."
truth
"my option also"
"i have more aware of and i want my voice to be and for it to be !"
"i have seen nothing but injustice and corruption"
"before i i ' t really understand the political view but afterwards i familiar with it"
"i ' learned that the justice system is very crooked and that they really don ' t care about the we go threw while . i feel as though they should be doing more for those falsely and giving us the to better help us return into the world ."
"my always democratic party which is not wise now days are not what that should be that are not for the people ever"
yes
"my political view ' s because , i strongly believe that everyone the right to freedom of speech , no matter what the out come is in your current life !"
"i want an administration who is to prison reform . i got 60 for allegedly beating up the man who my 8 year old daughter . i was 41 , never in trouble before ."
"i ' m more wiser humble and closer to god"
"before coming to prison i really did not think it was all that important to vote or even care what was going on in the government but now that i have time to sit back and watch what goes on i know that as a citizen it is very important to let what i want to be known by the people in charge ."
"i actually get to sit down and see how the world really is"
"i am more aware of the need for prison reform"
"it should be strong for bulling"
"that i would have agreed to before i would not now"
"i care now"
"i was in 1996 , five after i turned 21 old , and i ' t care about voting then . i was too wrapped up in to dull my pain from childhood trauma to worry about political or being civic - minded . now , though , after 23 in prison , i realize how greatly i ' m affected by the and the political climate . i have spent as a ( from a legal assistant certification ) the law and standing up for civil of men like myself . i have a case in the 8th circuit court of number 19 - 1995 ' use of unpaid prisoner labor as unconstitutional because 45 ( or 48 depending on the source ) other pay their for labor . i also have a lawsuit the prison mail policy as violative of the constitution ' s equivalent of the 1st amendment . before i came to prison , i ' t have even known about these or about another man ' s civil , but"
"on looking ferry gun"
"because i understand that with out my vote and people that ' s like me in a bad condition should be allow to vote since i know that also"
"i have had more time to pay attention to politics ."
"yes , because i want people in office i know is trying to make to help me get out of prison and help me find work and housing so i can start a new life !"
"since being i have been able to keep up with the news and look at what i believe is the bigger picture and the possible of those we choose to represent us ."
"i had the privilege to walk on the grounds my also walk and still safety"
"i never attention to or politics until it directly me ."
"will continue too"
"i now look at better ."
"i was a hustler i had to go and make a way out of no way . racial was big in the prime of my era , but after serving 30 + yes . convinced that because i have ."
"it that everything ' s people locked up"
"realize that certain are unfair and need tobe ."
"i use to think that keeping assault was our constitutional right to bear arms and protect ourselves against a threat . but really a hand gun is sufficient enough . hell we don ' t need no assault rifle to hunt either . and most of our mass shooting come from people who legally buy and acquire the proper to obtain a assault rifle to commit the heinous ."
"look at the president that we have today that is all about his self"
"i pay attention more ."
"policy and government affect my point of view through the system"
"we all can make a difference"
"i am a registered , raised in a catholic town full of staunch . my formed my political bias from a very young age . however , in prison i have seen the republican government take some turns that me ."
"i have a different mind frame about it now"
"they ' because president trump taken over as president and i see a lot of disrespect from the left towards him . it he ' s been from day one . regardless he ' s the president and people should respect him rather they agree with him or not ."
yes
"n / a"
"black ' s don ' t matter"
"yes i feel should be ."
"i ' go through the rest of my life do to incarnation"
"yes i don ' t trust politician"
"before i did not career"
"i study more history"
"i ' watched n learned more on presidency"
"i now see how bad the justice system is up"
"i vote"
"yes because i look at the and criminal justice system different because there is no justice"
"yes it absolutely for the best due to me a more and mature outlook in life now so they keep me from being easily persuaded and since it all the unnecessary hate towards our great president trump who done a superb job as our president so let ' s come got as one nation and country and support and respect president trump !!"
"i wish i would have the importance of voting"
"being as a youth only given me the opportunity to focus entirely upon bettering myself and the previous and that i formerly lived by . i focus less on political unless it in my current position ."
"was only leaning democrat but now sympathize on some republican"
"yes ."
"i used to not care so much about what is going on in politics and how the government is operating but since being , i have learned that the are what ' s wrong with our society today and the lack of proper ethical treatment of humanity by their greed ."
"there is great need to have better judicial across the country and better"
"more towards less government control"
"i love my country"
"not sure"
"i used to say people in prison should be here but being here some people should have a second chance and the system ' t forgive"
"made me mature and my to most re going on in our country and beyond"
"before i was locked up i was more immature and ' t care . i ' been locked up 5 now . have grown an want to make a difference to what goes on around me . i cant do anything an am helpless to my country"
"i suppose because i pay more attention to our world . in fact , have got interesting with all the trump stuff . after 14 in prison , i now focus on my future beyond these . not to mention , my future ."
"i see from a new perspective , literally and metaphorically ."
"people pass that they don ' t understand the repercussion that they put on different and people that have certain . they can affect a life forever just by a law on the"
"since giving my life to god it my view about a lot of"
"i no longer support illegal leniency on their residency status ."
"my have been to the of the poor and how hard it is to end generational poverty , thus reducing generational incarceration ."
"there are certain and political that never applied to me before"
yes
daily
"they have i change because i actually have had a chance to sit down and really see what politics about and how it so much"
"they us as animal ' s"
"i ' relieved ! how this world is not black and white . this on from prison reform , since i believe once you ' done you time , you need to be a full member of society , to how we interact on the world stage . as a nation is dying a slow death ."
"i pay more attention to political ."
"new political"
"a whole lot just in a different pattern ."
"no se"
no
"never attention while outside"
"know i no how it is on both side of the world being free or a there is a lot that been taken away from us as . we made a bad decision that put me here but it don ' t make me a bad person"
"we need a voice being"
"yes ! i ' grown more interested"
"i chose yes because i have gotten wiser"
"i can ' t"
"well since my incarceration i have more attention to politics ."
"yes our political ways are not very important"
"a lot of my have . for one i am sober . i think about a lot of . i think differently . way differently ."
"i really did not have any"
"well i can see not everything is as black and white as people make seem"
"i ' been paying more attention"
yes
"most of certain are garbage ."
"made me pay more attention"
"came to prison a staunch democrat . now i am more tolerant of !"
"prior to my incarceration i was indifferent , i ' t have a reason to care now i care deeply because i am so personally"
"i don ' t know"
"because i actually care now"
"yes i am a drug offender with violent who in some have less time than i do i have never carried out of violence on anyone a spent most my life in and out cause addiction"
"it ' s self explanatory"
"no one care about the people that ' s locked up ."
yes
they
"i ' m far more concerned now about my well - being in society as well as in prison ."
"now i ' m even more affected by that place complete control over my ."
"i can sit down an watch it more now"
"it lime its one sided ."
"my attitude a lot the way i carry myself as a human being i care a lot more and i don ' t tolerate a lot of ignorance ..."
"i am more aware and informed on political and want to be more active in reform when i get out ."
"because now i care"
"no family"
"i see and from many and"
"i would like to explain life of my situation and which i had to help people of all"
"my previous were that the democratic party was for the and the , but i ' since then been convinced that the political process of the us is nothing more than a complex scheme to further the economical & military agenda of the white slave ."
"i look at the world more for what it is ."
"a first hand view of the corruption in the , it ' s all about the money , being like , i was at the unit for the in 2017 & 2018 , watched as black begging for medical assistance , it was , watched as were pain medication after surgical and given and instead , the legally disabled forced to work or be , and medication and medical care withheld . have and attorney to back up some of the above ."
"i want to vote for the that will provide the most rehabilitative for mentally i ' ."
no
"yes i know now that i matter and i have a voice and it is my responsibility to stand up for the and the future ."
"i think our country is gone to"
"the judicial system"
"in the past i would have vote democratic , but now i set back and listen to the person speaking instead of house party . cause in my mind now day there really ' t any house any more every out for their self ."
"since my incarceration i ' given my life to an my have"
"before i was someone who formed ill informed based on , where as now i try to take in information about the issue and the whole picture / of ."
"i ' learned that all count"
"i ' become more involved in politics"
"my have but mostly because i have aged and more have become clear to me"
"i have never taken the time to listen to what is going on around me until this last time of being , and well what i am hearing is concerning ."
"does nothing for people in prison"
"our government is going in the wrong way"
"yes cause it a fact if i ' d been related to anyone with political or had money i ' d not got a long sentence 25 yes for non violent then i was to hire my own by judge its in court"
yes
"yes because i keep up with the news more and trump is doing a really good job"
"if you ' re rich you get justice . if you ' re poor you go to prison and your property ."
"in order for our free world society to change or uprise for the betterment of our youth that will the final of our future"
"i guess since i was younger i really could careless who the president of the united and how were ran while they were in office . but prison grown me up and my to see that everyone ' s future even the next generation all on politics , , and how would change for the better or worse ."
"i find my self being more informed on today ' s political and purpose yes ! _ù ÷"
"people need to know the truth not hide it about prison ."
"i use to support the democratic party but now not as much . i am about a 50 / 50 split between now ."
"i ' t have view ' s about politics"
"i ' t know how broken the justice system was until i was in it ."
"i ' m more aware"
"very much"
good
no
"i saw a man get because he was in a prison with a simple possession of drug paraphernalia charge and and he was stuck in a with who to attack him as soon as he laid his intake bag down . the society that does that to a drug addict is a system that must end !"
"i believe that the person who is is in should have to visit all the prison in the united or at least spent some time in the system so they will actually know what we the people go through ."
no
used
"the way are done"
"cause i have a choice"
"i used to think it"
"because i have now watching the political and now i understand more of what is happening with our government and our as well as the going on with our country and the economy"
yes
"i would never vote democratic for any reason"
"i ' t listen to or watch politics before i got but after seeing the injustice in the system firsthand it made me want to learn more about the people who make our"
"we are in free will"
"before i was not interested now i am"
"it made me to lose interest and hope about all politics"
"i ' to see for what they really are and who those in political are on my behalf"
"i was raised by who were and are democrat . so , i always thought had black people best interest at heart ! bill ' s 3 - strike law , prison litigation reform act , welfare reform act my entire race !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!"
somewhat
"the done a good deal in helping me see it for what it is and it ' s not good"
"i once considered ! myself a libertarian"
"i turned republican due to racism"
"i ' m no one it don ' t matter we all know that the us bull crap an we are going to have to pay for it"
"the border . terrorist . gun control"
"i ' lost everything financially being this time"
no
"before i really ' t pay much attention . now its all you hear and see . when i was free though . i made more money when the had control ."
"i pay more attention to what ' s going on and how the party ' s are voting !"
"i pay more attention to politics"
"i ' had a lot of time to sit down watch the news and get a better understanding of what ' s happening in the world"
"i am more educated in my own and do not rely on what say . i look up the for myself and do not rely on someone ' s opinion ."
"i think i should pay more attention to what goes on in the political class because as it , it directly effects my family ."
"if i could vote i could make it a little better for"
"before incarceration i ' t care about political ."
money
learning
"i ' grown to understand politics more"
"the world is evil"
"n \ a"
"i see how corruption actually"
"the way we are"
social
"i ' m a victim of a corrupt justice system i now realize the importance of justice reform in my state and is"
"i now realize that the people in charge are the who make better or worse for the"
yes
"i used to not think it if people that are or have been in prison could vote . now i feel a lot different"
"can ' t see the question"
"same answer on last essay"
"i want the prison and justice system for better ."
"yes because no matter race or being i believe some of the people most deserved to vote are those because their life have in some ways have educated them in of life that you can ' t teach . with that said then i feel their vote is just as on point or important as some one who may not have the from different of life as some may have that are ."
"before i really sit an stop long enough to really think about what was happening around me or to my world . but as god sat me down to work on me an see what ' s going on around me . i ' learned a whole lot about not only myself but that ' s its to live in this of a world we live in . its the we make with that brokenness that determine what are will come to be ."
"trump taken office sense i ' been"
"i feel our president is leading us toward a world war"
"i am less liberal"
"i have libertarian anyway but now i have a greater understanding of my political through the lens of being ."
"realizing that my vote would have me and inspired to try and get my back to vote ."
"not sure"
"you see for what they are"
"not parole board keeping us away from family after been by the court parole after rolling in prison"
"i am more aware"
"yes because i want someone in office that care about the and that can make change with prison reform and the justice system"
"i have been convinced that republican ways are better"
"yes used to be republican but since trump took office"
"it made me feel like being left me without a voice in the politics and being formed or to be formed in the world in which i , and all of us , live in ."
yep
"since i ' been i have our president openly be . he been the reason for terrorist . he openly singles out , and black people . he is going to start something that is going to destroy the u . s . a . these in own majority of our gas in small especially and many of them live inside them . what u think they are doing at night ? sleeping ? no ... they are building under these gas they all are connected they all use the same foreign and i ' m telling you the own a nice chunk of gas in the u . s . between all of them . . that ' s a lot of burning if they all decide to start them ... just saying ."
"i get to talk to people like me"
"yes , but the majority of that to a president since i ' been who ' s not very presidential . a division in our society , made it normal to lie , play the blame shift game and operate from a position of double , no self awareness and on and on ... but the reason is simple . i am not who i used to be . i have grown , i have , i have become wise . certain are just automatically added and when this ."
"i ' become more liberal ."
"hand bench brick try urgency"
"nobody ever do anything for the"
"during the 2016 election i watched the media tell one lie after another . i have watched the media and the get more and more insane with each passing day . all because they refuse to accept that lost . before all of this , i was never very political at all . in fact i could not have told you what the difference was between a democratic and a republican was . now as far as i can tell the term democratic to a dangerous mental disorder ."
"there are no governing addiction . we have drug and education , however drug are being thrown in prison and have a harder time getting out then a sex offender ."
human
"you help fight crime ."
"since being i have become more informed and concerned with the direction my country is heading"
"before i came to prison i never really put a lot of effort into politics but now that i have had the time to really see how work , i understand that the prison industry is a politics"
"i ' m not a very big political person when free"
"i ' m against the governor ."
"yes they have because i see how they are running the country"
"and the criminal could always be a lot more conservative per say !"
"the reason that is because i feel are getting harder for people that is lockup ."
"yes i think if you hold office than they need to do there job"
"no they haven ' t"
"i much of them is for us"
"i want to be able to vote for i should be able to have a say in"
"me not care"
"i ' been reading a lot of , i feel like whoever can create more and , help with the u . s . debt should be in charge ."
"i want a voice for fairness and the criminal and"
"yes after being subjected to prison there are such as civil and i ' t think of before prison the are now in my the after effects of prison after release"
"i ' my way of thinking"
"don ' t known"
"i ' t interested in politics before because i ' t care about my community . i have and want to be a positive and productive member of society some day so i now care what in the world and especially my country ."
"our government is clue less to reform"
"watching news"
"because the way the government is against ."
"now that i can ' t vote i would love to but not for my interest"
"its more of an educated view now"
"being a victim of a corrupted justice system i now realize how important prison reform is in"
"yes i see the our country is in"
because
"i ' m just a little more aware"
"i follow political more since however i feel like as a felon will have no say so in"
"i never how many people were needlessly for . nor did i realize how much racism is in the and hatred toward with very little , or . nor did i know how much human had taken over in our own country ."
"i ' more attention to what is going on , when i was out there i never really as much , i ' m a felon i have no right to right ?"
"i used to think that my vote ' t matter one bit , because if the rich people want someone into office , then no matter how many little people , they ' re still going to put who they want into that office . regardless ... but now , after being unjustly , mainly , i have an opinion , and it to me , so i want to express it more now than i ever have in my whole entire life . i have taken in twice for the man i had in my life , taking me from my , and my , and my . lost my father to / cancer while , lost my 2nd husband to a massive heart attack in his sleep while he was on a job in , i was at work in when it . i have so much i need to try to correct in my life , i need to say to my family , , any person who may or may not have the same or that i ' had ... but i have a voice , and i will have my """" freedom """" once again ... hopefully very soon ... i ' been very resourceful here"
"i used to have no interest in politics , but now i i do , mainly because from what i see half these belong behind way before i do !!!! their effect many , mine , not so many !!!!"
"i pay more attention"
"i have learned that lower class are chosen to live that way , and there is a reason for racial"
"i think president trump our economic growth a great deal ."
"because you never know what will happen"
"yes because no matter who you vote for most of them tell the people what they think they want to hear and as for the presidential race they lie to the people about how important their vote is when in actuality it very little because in the last election received more popular than trump but the electoral college trump so why don ' t they tell the people that even if you don ' t come out and stand in the rain and freezing weather a president is still going to be ."
"i want freedom"
"yes i like to have it were expressed"
"i ' in some situation still confused"
"i would like to help find a better way to help stay"
"new political"
"we need help from an outside source other than state"
"i not only care more but i ' m more aware about what ' s going on in"
"i never much for politics but now that i ' m stuck in prison dealing with and being parole just because i ' m a violent offender . it is nice to keep up with trying to find out just who is out there to help violent as well we deserve to get the help we need just as the non violent do . but from what i ' seen so far we violent don ' t have much of a voice when it comes to a political standpoint ."
just
"to be honest before prison i never thought about political or , how it effects my daily life ."
"the now are not for the people that are in prison in keep giving year to keep the people to get more money i tink they need a law to let them out when their the date comes up not give them year to keep them in prison"
"i want to be apart of society"
"i have more attention to it"
"i ' more attention to government and going on in the world side i ' been"
"our really don ' t matter they are pick who ever they want in office ."
"first off i never knew were a revolving door . nor did i know that parole is a set up to fail system ."
"being given me the opportunity to further my knowledge of civic duty"
"because one day we my get to bite"
"it ' s made me see just how my country feel ' s about it ' s people"
"because i have learned more about the different ."
"the president is for people on parole by no matter our back ground ."
"i have become more interested as i feel i have become more affected ."
"i feel or my opinion on drug should not be considered worst then sex ."
"yes my r open now"
"not been mad about who i am"
"because we matter"
"yes i will never get involved in a election again . i fill if i had not in the election for sheriff in 2006 . i would not be here now ."
"i have been exposed to the true nature of what """" criminal justice reform """" actually of . a platform to win , that is never actually upon . it all back into itself , the """" prison industrial complex ."""""
"well i ' t use to care now i do ."
"i have no interest"
"no change"
"now i pay more attention"
no
"i really get to see what ' s going on in the world"
"seeing the real damage politics do to this country ."
"yes i ' m more painfully aware of the impact our and their or lack there of effects us"
"i understand more than i use to"
"a lot of need to be made to but the system won ' t even listen to an point of view because we are an the system we don ' t know what ' s good for ourselves much less how to improve ."
"i ' seen up front they all are crooked"
"before trump , i ' t care , but by watching trump , everyone needs to care , cause he is only out for himself"
tuff
"i see a lot of stuff i ' t see before"
"i am more aware of how much politics a roll in my life individually like i never did before i was ."
no
"i do have"
"n / a"
"mainly for the simple fact that i actually watching the news in here . i ' m not distracted by work and paying and social . i ' m really thankful for that because along with being more aware of the political of the country , i ' m also more aware of my self and working on who am i and who i can be . prison can actually be a great opportunity if its done right . right now , i would guess that not even 1 \ 2 of inmate population is actually getting anything from it and another 1 \ 4 of that to the full potential possible ( those , of course , being the that want to truly be the best we can be )"
no
"incarceration needs to be more closely at"
"i pay"
"i would like for someone to stand up for what is right not what they think a person unless the crime i murder or rape or other violent"
"before i was i ' t keep up with much of the news but now that i do i can see how every opinion and how important the country needs our"
"i kind of hate this country for how it drug into rather than give us actual treatment . it the country ' s money and tax income and ' t fix anything . now that i have been locked away for a petty drug crime i have just been surrounded by worse and taught . i have made new drug and the addiction is still here and left untreated ."
"i see the damage were doing to our nation"
"realizing that in working together as a unit will get accomplished at a pace , there is power in"
"people like me need help not in prison"
"i ' m a hard time with people that have power right now"
"since we have lots of time on our we we what the propaganda is . so we discuss . i myself like to indulge my time in the law library . now that i know my i would never plead guilty . they bully us undermine us us with lots of prison time just to make a conviction rate go up ."
"it come to my attention that all they care about is money"
"i now have to face the ugly fact that ... well , it cost & financial gain take precedence over what ' s right & wrong . politics are a shorter definition of """" smoke in """""
science
"because of the justice reform"
"a lot that i am aware of"
"never attention tell now . and how bad the country is in danger"
"yes , because in doing the right"
"i see in a totally sober view instead of being high"
"i ' m in the world"
"never before yes"
"i ' m tired of seeing the country the way it is"
yes
no
"the way the system is ran"
"[ yes ] being naive up until my incarceration and or ' t care"
"[ yes ] the criminal justice system must change for the better . because this business is only designed to remove our as the people without them we have no voice to use them ."
"i for , as a republican since then , i see how divisive the republican party is and how progressive / united the party ."
"[ yes ] i ' become more aware of need for reform in prison + rehabilitation and advantage"
"well , my general have pretty consistent , but my on some specific have largely ."
"[ no ]"
"i used to be totally democratic in my thinking , but after three , plus of incarceration , my are more down the middle . i like some republican , but not all ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] absolutely ! i was never political prior . now with a wrongful / unjust conviction & multiple life at 91 - life very political . now fighting the system not just for myself , but on behalf of all unjust !"
"well being locked up you have to focus on the politics of being in jail"
"well we get told that will happen that arent what was said like 33 % really 33 % of our time that we do i dont under stand that"
"yes due to my"
"because we shouldnt be with double jeopardy which were taken care of 6 ago just because this county needs to pay for their jail and courthouse . it is illegal and unconstitutional and now my civil attorney will have to teach this county that lesson . i currently have people media and posting all of this on social media for support"
yes
"not sure"
"no se"
"yes i get 2 c from both"
"yes i am not to vote since i have a"
"i dont know ."
"because of all the injustice done by all these in the inside ."
"yeah because we always get the but end of the stick , like the saying goes down hill an we are down hill"
"yes because my got with a black guy while my in ."
"i feel like its important to do my part in what to this country ."
"well yes i used to think trump was a good president . now after reading the newspaper i think he the office and should be"
"well more open and involved in the news these days and i think it we got no say in the matter as to whats going on in the world i got a poss of a firearm charge not my fault walking to the store for bread in my neighborhood can get you"
"i have become far less trusting of the establishment after seeing how truly broken and corrupt our criminal justice system is . this is comes from someone who used to have immense faith in the entire """" system ,"""" i worked in politics ."
no
"now i know more so more educated"
"i am now a socialist"
"the way are for"
"um see for what they are"
"seeing and hearing about them are two different . live it then tell me how easy we have it"
"the corruption , violence , and amongst police , , and have my to how much reform is and how much education is in and"
"seeing everything thats happening"
nope
"for the better"
"the are set and i have no say so in them being or ."
"i am now seeing first hand how the system is affecting our society and people"
health
"i was pro before i went to jail"
"i want to vote now"
"they have because of the way my news my president out to be , most take favoritism to a certain party whether that be republican or democratic"
"what your out of jail you dont thing about this like that but when your you hear and watch that you ' t on the streets ."
"i feel that if people like myself n"
"prison is a waste and human , over half of the in here are non - violent drug and given no chance at treatment ..... it ' s b . s ."
"looking at the news you"
"more involved and more aware more time to read and view the information concerning politics and people running . i have a different thought process now that me the time to be involved and active in it ."
have
"because u get a different view of how it is on the inside"
"yes because its given . me the ability to see how from the inside . and . how the tax are lied to to gain that wouldnt be the same if the people werent being with propaganda that is being fed to them and therefore causing them to make and allow that otherwise they wouldnt ."
"when i was not in jail i ' t informed on whats going on in the world , now i read the paper as much as possible because i like to know whats going on ."
"well since being here there been a number of i dont agree"
love
"i have become more aware of and interested in . politics since being ."
"i think some of these concerning the are counter intuitive . ab109 made have to do their in prison mean while people going to prison are getting 1 / 3 time for more serious and in turn doing less actual time ."
"see in different view"
"i no longer feel i can live the dream with on my record . my college education from was useless for future employment in court , as a result my and were . i feel like i must try and find peace in this world , in myself as i will be unable to prosper"
peace
"i feel that if everyone had the right to an ( vote ), the prison / county would not be as full and more people from the prison / jail system would want to vote ."
"we need to have who care about reform ..."
"i am against incarceration for many and am for rehabilitation , for immigration control , for education and work , housing , ."
no
no
"being in prison or jail it apparent the mass effect that 100000 + people in one state on plus its sad to see . all these send people away for that got hurt"
"i just eat to get bigger and grow"
"well i want to know more about how i can change the judicial system"
"i thinking voting for is a big thing . it the system to we to have and need to be . we experience more then what the average person does who been . knowledge is power . experience is change ."
"they have i didnt know about how can have an effect on my part . of me being and i wish i have an opinion"
"yes , because i want to do important now"
"i don ' t know"
"it made me want to to vote ."
"i look at the world"
"they dont give a about us"
"be open on how correction the court system is and how the public should be made aware of the and unjust the system is"
"yes cause we need our to be , we have to support and protect"
"as i was a minor when i got locked up i us to think government and the legal system was here to help and serve justice but there not its to help keep the white rich safe and get rid of the non white poor by mass incarceration"
"well , for the most part we need to unite as one . leadership needs not to be racial or bias . we need leadership .."
"many of my . have ."
"watching the news"
"my political have i would say have grown instead of . you see on the streets i was too busy to read a news paper or watch the news so i was not as aware as i am now of what is happening in our world ."
"or you be good or be good at it , regardless their will be"
"i used to think more like when i was younger . as i got older some of my to more conservative ... i believe it just came from maturity ."
"many more and . without"
"more off what trump was helping of all the stuff talk about him"
"i always thought i was a republican . the more i see the news , the more i i am a democrat ."
"no they have not"
"us for petty"
no
"i have a much bigger appreciation for a good impact on the direction the country is moving ."
"have the most money and stability . i realize i lack these important supporting democrat"
"yes , because of misconduct from the local judicial system and the people who manage it i may be going to prison for a rather heinous crime i did not commit . i was and spent 352 days in jail to be given a deal , but to get the deal i had to wave all of the day ' s i spent in and they would give me credit for time ( which to a whopping 60days ) so i had to wave 292 days and plead guilty to something that i didnt do ,( but after a year a person is more then ready to get out of jail at almost any cost ) so they told me if i plead guilty to 1 of my 2 i get for time with 5 probation , and that is all my of _ùõ © attorney said to me in the court room . so i the deal , and little did i know that to get off of probation i was going to have to attend a of classes ( among other ) and the class to somewhere in the $ 20 . 00 a week range for almost a year and the most expensive cost almost $ 50 . 00 a week for 52 not"
"seen that the system targeted and i would like to vote against political ."
"before being i didnt pay politics any attention"
"i ' seem the legal system work against the poor , and against people of certain"
"well being given me the inside view of our judicial , jail , & prison & after the worst of like 152 within 9 because of inadequate medical & mental health treatment , officer misconduct & inadequate administrative grievance process & then finally after exhausting those administrative to pursue litigation with the . so when i watch the news i can see & hear truth the face of deception & call for what it is ."
"you dont realize what you have until its taken away and being in jail make you realize how up are ..."
"how people decide how are applied but dont understand how much they put . people"
"the way are i now have an interest in politics"
"when i was much younger i use to say that i did not give a crap what in the world because i did not effect me at all . use to say stuff like i dont care because no matter what still a animal in a cage and the world can go to hell and id still be in prison and i still wake still wake the same way off because my breakfast was cold and lumpy with a bag lunch every day and that would never change even if the world was a fire it would be the same for me . then we got """" the """" and he said some like """" going to take out of the prison in and going to put the weight pile ' s back into the """""
"yes , arent fair . i dont agree with life , death , or any 10 - life"
"the far left taken over the moderate left - wing by bullying , & their deceit is ( e . g . this little survey here , is in their tactic box of to increase the on their side ... being that of of potential remain ignorant about their !"
greatly
"i ' t how many innocent were being by our so """" justice """" system ."
"the more reason for gun control !!!"
"dont matter look the girl got mor but he still got it so were do we go whit that"
"trump is a race trading that should be tried and put on death row punk ass bitch"
no
"yes because now i know that by voting new props get and let people out sooner with petty"
"the system right"
"there should be more for that are with no probation no parole . to make it as a productive member in ."
"we cant vote in here and i am supporting some and i cant do anything about it i wish we could vote in jail"
"i have been made more aware of how much we struggle socially"
"because trump is the worst person and president ever !"
"i never really attention to politics and kept up with them . being and watching the news daily i know have regarding them ."
"as that been . i ' come to the realization that , it is important for all of a society of people to let their voice be in the political of government ."
"because their are a lot of that happen almost everyday . some of those law can sometimes affect people that are . wether they are good or bad ."
"i came in as a republican . i was a middle class ant fell in to the stigma of thats the party who would have my best in mind . i no longer think like that and have become more involved in . i dont only listen to one sided news to support my as i once did . i now identify as an and make that i beleave will move the to a that will the next generation . like my ."
"yes , it me to have a lack of in voting because i feel as if the country down on me for prior i have made ."
"yes its i ' never really them before"
"i . want justice for ."
"yes they have cause its like i just dont care ."
"yes because you found out how unfair its the justice how unequal its the court when your not white"
", a way to hinder us all ..."
"getting older expand my mind when it comes to politics and i realize it my welfare look at trump"
"because being locked up i watch the news and see whats goes on in the world and get to make my own point of on"
"the that are important to me me have , since being ."
"i become more aware and concerned for the aspect of incarceration . i want to know just why to on such a large scale fail so many . obviously are not being done to change the ever present revolving door effect that most everyone i have met to be stuck in like a ."
"i have been a felon since i was 17 , so never attention to politics , because i could not vote . now that are and i may be able to vote one day , i pay attention to whats going on politically ."
no
"am a better man"
". of people give me"
"because . i hate the government"
"there are a number of locked up for they did not do , and are some that are in the house that are trying to help so i pay a little more mind to the news now ."
news
"our justice system is corrupt our justice system is only made for greedy money . our of state only want to make money and line their"
"our . of our great state of . of time off our for mile going to school . ."
"watch more news more to it"
"my political have change because we have this thing in our that the are for the people ..... well when i am being with a crime i never it ' s ..( it ' s we the people . me in court .... it ' s we the people why we are given life ... it ' s we the people who disregard god ' s and allow abortion .... it ' s we the people who keep you on public assistance and homeless .... those are your democratic we the people .... the hell with nancy .... cortez and any other so democrat ..... their the people and were the cancer as they say .... are what we need .... are available at a good hourly wage .... the homeless are being .... border is up so can ' t starve us us back where the us ...... prison reform is making it easier for long term to get a second chance at freedom ... abortion become somewhat illegal .... with that said ......... ...... ..... god bless"
"i feel that politics have a far impact on my life ' s than before i of my freedom ."
"yes i think that should be or pertain more to where you come from and not so much as a general thing ."
"i see first hand how people are and our voice is silenced because we are i belive the prison population would equal up to 40 % of in and would vote towards the people not the unholy kingdom"
"yes , been following the news more since in jail ."
"been paying closer attention to the world and more"
"the current president and his chamber of . ' s advocate . and trump icon ."
"now i pay more attention as to what is happening in our country , state , federal , county , and city , and what the are doing to """" fix """" this country . still much racism exist in this country and in our government ."
"i am a repeated offender and have strike for self defence men have tried to rape me , no self defence law . i am a victim of sexual and domestic how i respond to society is much different than some one who ' t a victim and experienced life as i have from the time i was 5 old ."
"in my 41 i have never been , thus never concerned myself with or political regarding . prison , rehabilitation . now that i ' m currently in jail my concern with political have been awaken and will make . me . seen which party is showing . concern with and . recidivism ."
"treatment from"
"yes the that get effect us in here as well as our family out there i do understand that i ' broken the law , however i have broken the law . it not effect us / me for the rest of my life . if is about bettering ourselves well paying for the we . then we be to get back to our as a citizen of this beautiful country & pay our & help make the that can help better our country who would know better then someone been at the bottom .?"
"i use to not care at all about political drama . but since my last incarceration i taking an interest ."
"because only violent are being sent up state to prison . and non violent are being in local up ten without the proper ways to house us and not have education or ways to get off . i personally think being for 6 or even 10yrs in a local jail is not right and they should make it to where we have the same and education for people that are to there local prison term1170 the treatment that state prison us and gate money for us who have nothing"
"the are getting better"
maybe
"i get to see first hand the carelessness and the"
"no like i said law ' s are made for a"
"never use to care"
"i wont to voice the for the"
"before being i ' t think that our criminal justice system had any major . but after the process first hand and being moderately aware of our , i now see how the criminal justice system its power and loop and to justify shady tactics to maximize their conviction . it ' s a problem led to early of actually dangerous and paying the price for swelling prison ."
"si para no ."
"well i feel since my vote wont count as much"
"yes because i am the politics and have a variety of and out on politics from racial and of both and"
"i was hurt and stole from and the one and the person that wronged me is free ..."
"for example when trump went in to office the stock market dow went down everything except . we have as many people the size of can fit inside the state in prison . they are money and have become slave . there is no such thing as reform or blind justice ."
"the reason they have is based on how fresno county is and i want the to make to this valley to where it is not against men . sick and tired of being at like the suspect when all with my ex and i made poor and to . how she me . i feel there is a lot of men in my spot"
"i get of from different , so """" their """" side of the story and me in my overall decision ."
"many have been happening , with little and . its not , i say . and should not be on what the president did or did not do . , to pay attention on ower and the thats going on around . the eye in the sky , why not use it correctly ."
yes
"because once i that they dont have us best at heart"
"i well do thing wrong"
"because of the way the system correctional treat the inmate who are very poorly and un and shouldnt be aloud"
"need more gang task"
"care about prison reform"
"this would take me way to long to answer i dont feel like my answer come talk to me"
"it wasnt until prison that i racist against the black community which ironically was a . race that i predominately hung out with during my . become more of a left wing republican who more with trump than . each country is their own country and each have their own and . we dont migrate to other and make to change their and demand for our . if not a . natural born citizen / legitimate that want to live here then accept who we . are or stay where your at . simple as that"
"yes because there is static like being a felon some from being a voter ."
"yes i am at this point how i the judicial system n there corrupt ways and how especially county is so quick to judge with out physical evidence"
"because they are not out to change any thing that to do with because it is big business and they are only in it for the money"
"it like i am to join one race while , thats the political of not myself ."
"i have more attention to whats on politicly"
"yes they have cause of me being . part of the system"
"when i was younger i was more of a but now lean more towards republican"
.
"na ."
"because you can see for your self whats going on behind the wall . prison are no better then the ..... and should be doing time .... the green wall is a cop prison gang ....."
"i believe more prison reform happen too many people are locked up for"
"i didnt care much before"
"yes because i never . really attention to politics this much"
"more educated in the justice system and court . if took me to be on the inmate side to understand the reality of how the lack of education the unjustice balance to fall upon the population . most arn ' t aware of how to conduct or what their stop in court . all they know and are to is the knowledge and power by their most likely court ."
"president got"
"it who you"
"better light on ."
"because i see how crooked this place really is"
"justice is unfair"
"due to over it the of housing"
"well i dont know how to answer"
"after doing time you see first hand the fairness / unfairness of and . it make you want to do your part to make ."
"there is so much in and out of the over build ."
"not sure"
no
"yes do to the justice"
"i think the are outdated and need to be more up with our times"
"yes they have immensely !! i ' m ashamed and embarrassed with our justice system !! from the police department to the public defender ' s office , it ' s downright pathetic the unprofessional conduct and disregard for the people ' s constitutional and human !!!! it ' s become a horrible joke that ' s no where close to humorous !!!"
"i believe that that there needs to be someone to in the doc fair . example . a violent offender in that is to prison is for fire came . but the non violent offender that is to a prison term in a county jail is not for fire camp . how does that even make sence . fire camp is a and k . off time for people willing to learn and change and that program be in the county jail is to a prison term there"
no
"more informed"
"was always told , """" are not aloud to vote """"."
"seeing the amount people getting and serving time for minor and for of parole and probation made me question the whole justice ."
"need to vote to end ,"
no
"they have because after further awaken my understanding of our judicial system . how cruel and unusual my punishment is . locked in my cell 47hours until for 1 hour for a crime i did not commit and the only reason i was because of scare tactics used the d . a all in the interest to better the county conviction rate . but what do i know just a criminal"
"i feel less to vote because i feel like an outcast"
"they change somewhat"
"more interested in it"
"the way are"
"i have been in for a long ti ' e , 31 , and just older i suppose ."
"yes need to . stop drug . i here for a . first time . in jail and have seen many that this needs to . change"
"yes my political have since being because while being here you have the time to sit back , relax and take everything into thought ."
"i dont feel being . they try to break our will and say were in jail .. like everyone were on our own and helpless .. they treat us like the shelter and we hurt too"
"more to those ' as in more"
"most of my have at least slightly , this is a . different . world"
"the system is"
"yes because i pay more attention to politics , and i believe every vote should count if you are a citizen of the united ."
"i was ignorant prior to incarceration ."
"they seem not to care much about the public"
yes
"i think that most political candidate will say what they feel is safe . we need authentic leadership to make radical and be prepare to navigate through the ."
"i have had the same outlook on life always . not much into politics , but trump out as a person more than a politician i identify with that ."
"[ yes ] before my incarceration i used to believe that some people deserved to be in prison . i now know that most are here as a result of a government system . poor , poverty and lack of social & moral . these factor in to who we become"
"[ yes ] i been 18 and i do my own and i ' m in college so i have learnt a lot of which help develop a more in depth look at life"
"[ yes ] i was a democrat . i recently read the 1994 violent act in which bill and joe . that my view . that crime bill really hurt the ."
"[ yes ] i took a ( civic ) course in second chance alliance , and i discovered how each branch of government work . and i now favor non - profit ."
"[ yes ] i how much politics affect my life ."
"[ no ]"
"i pay more attention to social"
"i used to think that politics did not play a big role in me being . then i to see from watching the news & following politics that did change w / / of different voting sessions , whether the state , federal , national ..."
"[ yes ] have learned to read observe and study more on the of politics . especially this process of impeachment"
"[ yes ] before being i felt that we had good country until i got caught up in the system to see how it work , not much different than in the days of ."
"[ yes ] i have a lot of and of tribal . they are affected by the . the democratic and republican party discriminate against red race and religion . these can not comprehend red human , nor can they be taught ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] not being accountable"
"[ yes ] my political have because of my education and higher moral and religious belief system . see my attached , 2 page , addition letter / and or political herein ."
"[ yes ] "" i don ' t trust -- they never live up to what they say they are going to do -- and their on black are truly obsolete ."""
"[ no ] i would like to vote yes no that i commit should stop me from ."
"[ yes ] i have the time to listen and conduct a personal analysis of what ' s real and what ' s not"
"[ yes ] first i ' t understand the different . i still barely understand the constitution and how it to ."
"[ yes ] i am able to see a lot of deceptive people in life on both sides . people today are for ."
"long story !"
"[ yes ] i left politics alone on the outside for lack of understanding . i ' had time in here to learn a great deal of how they work , not always for the betterment of the people"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] my are generally based on experience and information . the prison experience is very enlightening and revealing ."
"[ yes ] i was 19 when i got , and i was politically uninvolved . now i realize that voting is the right upon which all hinge ."
"[ yes ] i have learn political , that it is the policy and procedure of the power that dictate the world"
"[ yes ] i tend now to highly favor the of and what they stand for , and their ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i never gave the idea of being a political reformist until society wronged me . now i know how innocent men in the past ."
"[ yes ] i ' just had time to see and read and pay attention to i ' t while on the streets i got educated to the political world"
na
"[ yes ] i listen to a variety of news and talk every day ... sometimes up to 15 a day . the dishonest liberal media an agenda and is incredibly unfair . i filter through the bias in order to learn the whole story ."
"[ yes ] i ' now close attention to the government ."
"[ yes ] time made me more optimistic and open to new , people and"
"[ yes ] i understand corruption and self serving in a whole new light ! i can now see clearly what was then a blur ."
"they only care about the rich not the poor ."
"i have now had the experience to treatment of d . o . c . and i tell that more should be done to help on the inside & outside ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i was a liberal democrat i am not a liberal republican"
"[ yes ] i ' m learning more about politics"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] they have my mind to us who are in prison , and need to parole from prison soon"
"[ no ]"
"i am catholic and cannot support abortion / death penalty by reason of my devout faith"
"[ yes ] i want to become more involved with political ."
"[ yes ] ignorance to the of is a huge issue . people see us as scum of the earth and should stay behind . people change , and so does their political ."
"being locked - up if you care , really you take an in depth look to uncover what is being done and said from a legal / political view , as to what is actually going on . the prison system is a huge black market ."
"[ yes ] trump is a up and some time in prison would help get his mind right ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i can now with the racial bias in the criminal justice system in the state of"
"[ yes ] i got locked up in 1998 . when i was 20 old and unlearned . but now i am 42 and i know better ."
"feeling a need to voice my opinion before society my opinion ' t matter ."
"i know the true of life they know we need help to change because the young people is killing they self we need help to change"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] because i see there is a need for change in our justice system ."
"[ yes ] i think more about reform of the system"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i wish i had taken more participation in the local election when it came to , state and as well as sheriff ."
"[ yes ] my conservative have more liberal since being entangled in the legal system . in specific , i believe the conservative on criminal justice is not only misguided , but also not representative of the majority of their . this is especially true in !"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] because now i want to stand up for the little man and speak out and make a difference in a system that the truth that truth as hear say ."
"[ yes ] i no longer trust the government , most of which function at a low level of consciousness and are devoid of love . "" frank "" and see who i am . framed by twice . in prison since 1984 . 100 % innocent . i ' m not in denial . see attached article . go to ."
"i used to feel that & for their people , but haven ' t seen proof of that lately ."
"nobody to care , even where a person up everything to find a way to deal with the that sent him to prison ."
"[ yes ] i have a much greater knowledge of the political side of life and how each and every vote can right or wrong can affect the outcome of our making my vote that more important ."
"[ yes ] before i would sit back and assume worked as they should . since incarceration i ' m aware they don ' t . the system is in favor of the state / government"
"[ no ] prior to prison , i for ' s s . t . o . p . act to bring in the 85 % law . i see first hand that serving more time ' t change people . only rehabilitation change people ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] my towards those is no longer the same , i have learned that not everyone are bad ."
"[ yes ] i feel like what to me ' t be to happen to another 1st time non - violent drug offender , where a low level drug crime is over - into a major drug ."
na
"[ yes ] incarcerate become about fund in not someone"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i thought i was an all - out , but after explaining to someone my on abortion , gay , and immigration i ' m told i am a "" moderate "" , whatever that ."
"[ yes ]"
"[ yes ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i ' become aware of the criminal justice system and it ' s needs as well as those of and crime legislation ."
"[ yes ] i feel a lot of go on in prison that are not right and should be brought up"
"[ yes ] i have that nobody about people that have made ."
"[ yes ] my have because we as a people have to look past our current situation in life and look at the people that can help us as a people or help our love one to better in life"
"[ yes ] never had any before nor did i pay much , if any , attention to current ."
"i was a child when i came to prison with little to no understanding of politics"
"dont trust no one i need to do full on before i cast my vote"
"[ yes ] my incarceration led me to see firsthand how the judicial and political are taking advantage of people and their ignorance . are to represent us , but there are few ways for them to receive our . it me into activism ."
"i ' always been aware and to the need of criminal justice reform . but since being in prison i ' seen the need with new ."
"i would say that my particular political have drastically due to my current as a prisoner in . ' s "" criminal ' justice ' system "" is the most corrupt in the country and should be put under a microscope ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i pay more attention to the empty made to be for ."
"[ yes ] i have more understanding and empathy and a lot of respect for now , i have experienced both sides of view a lot of have no idea ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] being i see two point of & the box"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i am in state prison for essentially "" lying on my resume "" 5yrs + 20yrs of probation on a first offense of any kind ! 24 in the army meant nothing !"
"[ yes ] i was not as for people who with substance abuse and . that ."
"[ yes ] i ' just say this ... since my incarceration , i ' learned to be more when it comes to politics ."
"[ yes ] i ' m paying more attention to the news and . the gun violence does scare me !"
"[ yes ] new d . trump"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] politics ' t an interest in my household . since being i ' seen how the right can impact our economy . before prison i never attention ."
"[ yes ] go ! go trump ! always have a problem , with what a reb . does or"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ] ( please pull on c . i . for 2018 - 2020 . i think the information you find will be interesting .) even looking at fox 51 news - mason county . the prison is currently under investigation .)"
"[ yes ] realization that our justice system is flawed . are not their constitutional ."
"[ yes ] to be more into political world"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] see in a new light that i never saw from where i was in society ."
"[ yes ] i would vote for people who are going to help the most people possible not just a choice few"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i have come to a more conservative view . being shown me that the more liberal should be , however when it comes to state , we should be by a conservative ideal . are as they are for a reason . if you provide a , then you must provide one for whatever a personal id ' s with we would have a world of ..."
"[ yes ] people make / they pay their deserve a 2nd chance are still but get everything - even have trouble once due to felony record ."
"[ yes ] in , female are like trash because their only 10 % of the prison population . d . o . c . is so corrupt !"
"[ yes ]"
"[ yes ] being that i ' m on the end of this unjust criminal justice system , i ' seen first hand the importance of voting on the municipal & state level . these are the that affect our directly ."
"[ no ]"
"[ not sure ] haven ' t been able to read and or watch anything about what ' s going on"
"[ yes ] well , not i am democrat ."
"[ yes ] because of the in which we are made to live under this my view of politics all together"
"[ yes ] because i have been more with the voting on the 65 % passing in ."
"[ yes ] i understand now that people should be given the opportunity to show growth and change ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] by me seeing how many times my state with the election really me think that our vote dont matter they will put whoever they want in the chair"
"[ yes ] we need more prison reform to be resolved ."
"[ yes ] just like the should be because of the space being taken up in the jail and . because these are and it ' s not for the non violent . and if they would let"
"my have been open to i was so blind to that i felt were being from me by and higher"
"[ yes ] i see long for where there was no physical contact or harm ( i . e . 30 for child possession ) but drug , or wife getting 3"
"[ yes ] i never used to care about any of it , now i watch the world unfold and the us change completely ."
na
"[ no ]"
na
"[ yes ] i now see the need for prison reform from the inside"
"i have become much more engaged and very much more reflective and contemplative as to the politics i profess , the life i live , and the between the two ."
"[ yes ] impeachment of president trump"
"[ yes ] i believe that prison reform and mandatory minimum should be priority , too many people are for they can be for . ( i ' m one .) ...."
"[ yes ] i have seen first - hand how some of the of are unrealistic & sometimes even bias . to truly change our country for the best we need our to get real - life feedback and help from people living in the they want ."
"[ yes ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i have a sector of society that i really never"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] yes i see now how the politics us as people that have violent they don ' t give us a chance to ourself"
"[ yes ] i was once anti - marijuana but i am not pro - pot ."
"[ yes ] more liberal -- freedom of choice"
"[ yes ] i was 19 - old when i caught this charge and i was unfamiliar with the law ( s ) or anything and they basically had their way with me in the court room ( i was vulnerable -> i sold ten ($ 10 ) worth of and they gave me 30 - for it . this is my first time ever being in prison ."
"[ yes ] being in prison you look at different , because your perception because you are end of stuff you hope becomes and ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] don ' t support the of . don ' t support the of law that dictate serve more that statutory ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ] is but wrongly yet somewhat affected by overall in the right direction . the right smart & honest people in the right will help lead the world in the right direction ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] it ' s hard to find somebody to fix a broken world . everybody always sell of what they going to do . then they get there & do nothing . it ' s all personal gain for themselves !"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] my political have greatly because there is hardly any help for the it is very hard to find a platform in which we can use to be about unlawful incarceration and new that could forever change the system ."
"[ yes ] since i ' been in prison i have had the chance to really understand the political world at times i have found it very disgusting because a group or a race or two are always going to be left out of the big scheme of while are sitting supreme ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] my on criminal justice reform have in of mandatory minimum in the state of ."
"[ yes ]"
"[ no ] i am still an independent because there are and to both major political and i believe in the right to vote for both for the that i am concerned with ."
"[ yes ] i am growing more everyday learning different and that an effect ."
"[ no ]"
no
"it does matter who is ."
"i see the politics involved and the multimillion being made off people who chose the wrong path or dealt a bad hand"
"i have more attention to politics since being , and become interested in the direction of our government ."
"everything on t . v . is false . i used to think and to help everybody . and who , maybe they ' re . all they want is to push there agenda . for instance , take the virus . a few back , all we about was . i thought everyone was die . i mean for 30 days straight i about how would be deformed . then the government cut them a check for over a billion and praise and it was . haven ' t about it since . and now with ! 57 people have . smoking 1 , 315 people every day . all receive a personal spending budget , and although most start off with good , none come out clean . after all we know """" the love of money is the root of all evil """" my personal vote is for"
"i see how the country is and been doing"
yes
"aware for the need of prison reform and negative of mandatory"
yes
"due to the corruption i have went through first hand to do with court system ."
"nothing never done about the . problem with over prison does nothing to help they build mor instead of"
"don ' t know"
"shorter for drug and longer for violent and gang activity"
"more informed . desire to be involved in change ."
"well i see the inner of"
no
"i was never into politics on the streets but while in prison i have been trying to better myself as much as i can and being informed with politics just came with trying to better myself and be ."
"yes i go back and forth on whether i would vote democratic or republican . i agree with both sides on certain"
"i have a better understanding of the rule of law , the people it . which my family , and the foundation this country been built on . i feel the the power of the vote , and what can be accomplished when other come together . my political were non - existence , it ' t matter . i know now , that those view are the of change . these are the first of change , as i have been taught """" as the morning star rise , so does a new journey """". in this there is truth ."
"prison reform act is designed to rehabilitate but instead we are dand then on the streets and set up for failure ."
"the life my , to see the other side i was blind to ."
"i have grown up more and times have i am not set in my ways and my chang to the information available to me at the time"
"i really never much attention to politics and i am ex military so pretty much i always thought that the were always antimilitary and only the ever did anything good for our . now that i actually pay attention to politics i see both sides have good and bad , well they use to until lately when the to try and change the us into a socialist government ."
"just the punishment on some are not to serious but in prison a long time ."
"before i was with prison for all , but now seeing it in person i think are"
"in here you meet people who are there mandatory , being for simple that dont """" hurt """" our society . you begin to see to the extreme where its obvious its all about money . its like legal human for the government were suppose to have faith in rehabilitation and the best interest of another human being that made a mistake , came to prison , and for getting high , or a , or a mutual combat fight that he ended up coming out on top of for protecting a friend . that should be more intimately are being in our judicial system . its made it hard for to believe in the that are running our county , state , and country and us question there best interest ."
"before i never care because it effects my freedom"
"watched of news"
"since watching the news all racial status change"
"well , first off being locked up in the dog pound . my and see how i took for . just like the people are on the news . political wise though , i feel like i have no say in those because i made a mistake and am in prison . now days were at because they see our past and judge so easily . i understand why they do but at the same time is it right to judge us and not treat us as ."
"well before prison i never really about politics and what our of the country where doing"
"i though prison was for bad people now i know its just a resource for the state with 80 percent being hostage past there fixed time"
"i have more time to watch and learn politics"
"yes , they have the are the in my belief system . i thought that some of the they stood for were positive for the country . prison reform a together and a more unified country looking more for rehabilitation than locking people up . better for all people . job training to get people off welfare like that . i would agree with those and . that ' s not happening in this country it ' s sad . now what i have seen on t . v . is a country so divided the and can ' t even hear what the people are saying . why ? because they are to busy pushing there own agenda and hate . the people trump for president , it ' s a four year term deal with it . instead of all the and fighting what could of the got accomplished for the country . people trump because they the southern border secure . they to feel safe . people the deficit reduced but instead the spent millions o"
"the bull that this country trump to do"
"i really didnt pay attention to politics before i was locked up . but now that i some what have a idea of whats going on in the of politics i would like to have my vote count ."
"yes , we are a us citizen of our country . we of and bad , our vote and voice should matter ."
"before i was locked up i didnt even pay attention and care"
"i have become more aware of politics and my interaction with the in recent ."
"[ no ]"
"because now i see the importance of and if you will each candidate and what they truly stand for ."
"the incarceration"
"i dont trust people now and days people are a are only here to hurt people we nothing it ' s always power over the next man its never about money"
"seeing how so many poor people suffer in the legal process"
"i am a felon now i can not vote"
"yes they have , i have seen that most are at mostly as equal and are not . as much when it comes to voting"
"well i watch the news often now so more in tune about the made by political personal ."
"yea cause it really me want to vote now cause i never a day in my life"
yea
"i had respect for the jail system rule but now they lost my respect do to the way they mislead us and the amount of time they keep us here is put of control is like they make up law as they go and abuse them them and not follow them and us if we do like it ."
"not for sure what exactly ,"
"it us who is in office because of the that may possibly be"
"want to help make change"
"while locked away i notice a change in"
"no substitute to seeing how unfair or criminal justice system is from the inside"
"yes because i see its harder"
"this time around it made me view some differently"
"it because i a felon at a young age barley legal to vote now that i can vote that right is taken away from me because a felon now but still a citizen of this country so i feel my should count even tho i am a black man i feel we are all equal no skin color or that u have made in the past affect your future that bad if you are willing to change"
"when you see what is happening in the news with our highest official , it is discouraging ."
"n / a"
"because since being i had the time to think about everything thats going on wrong in the world ."
no
race
"too many social giving no incentive to work"
"i thin"
"it because i better my life n never be behind again i do whats rite for our people"
"i didnt know that while i was out with my freedom many actually the state treat like , the justice . system is and the are"
"i believe there should better people in congress"
"i think political wise their should never be anyone in any type of office that focus business not everything about . money you have to have a heart for your own people and people in the office dont even care about the people their in it for the money thats why down now these days"
"cause all this stuff affecting us ."
"seeing how the criminal justice system as a to make money more then care for and rehabilitation of the human being is outrageous . the way are , the food given to eat , and the many suffer to live in ."
no
no
yea
"it need more and schooling but instead they just lock us up and forget we exist"
"i do not see how jail people prepare for leaving here"
no
"more time to sit down and watch news and get"
"we all"
yes
"yes because sexual get less time than drug . why ? when we are the who need help ."
"because a lot of people are without a fair chance to explain or proper . proper"
"if given more input / . on certain , i could express my opinion more effectively . however , i mostly suggest a new presidential vote / candidate & terminate the current presidential official effectively & unconditionally ."
no
no
"i ' being unfairly because black"
"become a republican"
"i want to be careful on who i vote for because some political wont favor me just because of my class of wealth and race"
"yes it to many people ."
"because they want to do is keep people locked up its they get around 40thousand a year for each person locked up i no if they would give me that 40 thousand a year i wouldnt be coming back and fourth to jail they get more for one of us to be in jail than a person a year working everyday"
"we as a people in order to form a more perfect union and establish justice and other domestic , by and better and of they characterize us a people , protect us for us and us more , say so and to express our god give right to vote and support the / have to increase and develop our county to grow from inspiration and equality , from unity of the oppressed and the combining a and of and grave . provide fir the common defense , promote the general and secure our land , , , people / , food supply / water our constitution of the united of ."
"it suck and time to make a change with in our self ."
"my whole outlook on life for the positive of life . i don ' t like being just another statistic ."
"not worried about it"
"in a way in politics . even"
"i look at different"
"more . time . to . on . the . news ."
"yes some of the and how they are being are at question"
nope
"being hurt by the law and for fighting for my life"
"[ yes ] i have more time to look into political and"
"after the two of trump , i know that we can better than his , and . which party is in the white house ."
"i belive we are all one"
"watching the news and really gaining a sense of what ' s going on in this country , is a huge motivation to anyone who want better for the country their living in , especially if it could possibly effect them personally in some type of way or another"
"i have given far more attention to what is regarding this nation , each state , and those in office , and their main force / goal for why they are running . what they accomplish , if anything . i listen and pay close attention and pray for this country far more than before coming here . i have been like never before to work for the betterment of this nation and the to follow ."
"i was unaware of how our justice system was truly running ."
"i am more informed on certain . i never attention before ."
"well when i was free , i didnt think very much about politics . it was not until i got that i that now that i have to register for the rest of my life that i know now that politics are going to effect me very much so now"
"it up my more being in here"
"there much attention being to the criminal justice system . everyone everybody locked up but nobody to help them reintegrate ."
"people with the right to vote don ' t care or ' t informed correctly about what is going on in the country . because i cannot vote , it ' s ' why bother ' if my voice will not be ."
"don ' t judge a book by it ' s cover . give people a chance . no is perfect ."
"no because their going to run the way they want"
"yes , i feel like justice system is a failure it ' s me my whole life , several of which i for help . i feel that if more people who werent just worried about money in there and have these maybe could happen to prevent them or work through them"
"i feel this whole president thing is stupid he is not the king only the father the son and the holy ghost should be so unless they are them they should have no say in what we as people do how did they vote before before there was a president was it what exactly does that mean how do they know ? if everyone is less then god and everyone is equal how can one person decide . everything unless they are . something which they probably are it me not care about any thing about government for the fact they try to better the world yet its the same cycle so what exactly are we doing ?"
"i never really attention to politics when i was on the streets because i was always on but now that i have been clean for a few year and have a clear head i believe its important to know what is going on in my country and with my people"
"i had no political before , i never politics ."
"because we cant vote it dont seem fair"
"life is real and not just a party"
"the world is since been in office"
"i didnt know how much politics dealt with incarceration till and it me want to to help change some of the by being a vote"
"never keep their from when . they lie to get into position"
"yes , use to believe in the but not now . they are very much interested in themselves the country"
"because even thou were in . we still have some as to how our country should be ran by the leader if our would count even thou we have made as most of our but the havent got or there brushed under the table cause they are the and the had a right to commit fraud or a crime"
"yes we need a active prison reform"
"yes , i really ' t care what went on in the world because i i ' t , nor what i had to say but today what i think and do does matter now ."
"i just have a different look at the world that god made for us all ."
"i am for the now they are doing what is right"
"not really"
"i used to be strictly partisan , but now that i understand how important it is to work across the aisle i ' taken a different approach to listening to government and their on facing our country . i registered to vote as a democrat , but now i think that i am more of an independent ."
"no that thing effect me , i have more in ."
"i feel all people should b given the right to vote"
"more aware of whats going on in my country i actually care now"
"spent more time sat down and paying more attention to the news , the impeachment and came that have strong about never sat down long enough to care or think about ."
"prison reform is now a real thing for me .. for us . i believe most of the time , once we walk through the prison , we are forgotten . or just because the instant we are a prison number we become nothing but an """" inmate """" no matter our crime .. its sad ."
"i now realize how unfair the justice is and how bad it is for those of us"
"being stripped me of all of my . and being for long i don ' t really give a damn about politics . they system is corrupt all over . there are so many that i don ' t like to consider myself as an , because when i justice there was none . so why would i , now that my name and identity been by and and false media ,, should i care much about politics and the system ? i will advocate for the i have seen but a strong believer of self from state and politics ."
"yes . because the way are now change . i have since i ' been ."
"yes ... there is so many smart and intelligent that would like a chance to vote or even give an opinion to any political"
"i think that the system flawed ,"
"i was of murder , i used a hand gun i was a woman who was for 13 . i am part of a group here reaching out from within its a stop violence group i have been an active member for 18years , over the i have had all of different at the end of it all i am not for , i know it is people who kill people and have saved lots of , there was a man who was part of the who used to send me from there magazine of of people who would of had they not had a gun . but for me 22years after a gun so i would not dye ========== depending on what day you ask me sometimes i wish i would of just let him kill me sometimes i am actually that he is gone , since i ' been in prison i ' never been hit or beat up i am freer now than i ever was in my marriage , so you see there is of emotion to this .... any time he beat me up i never had a gun on me , until that night that i shot him , i so wish i did not have a gun on me that n"
"now i am mor involved with whats on because it me"
"before being i ' t understand that people who are educated and productive of society can end up in prison . i ' t fathom someone like myself ( a square goody - two - ) going to prison , let alone getting a 178 month sentence . i thought little of what deserved during their incarceration before my were to the harsh reality of living life behind ."
"people being for one . people with the of rape , child molestation , and murder get less then people with drug . there ' t enough rehabilitation out there people such as , da , and even higher in rank are just quick to throw away the key rather then help . we put all this money into just locking people away instead of trying to invest in making them better . the money waisted on that could have been given a chance to find help rather be thrown away first chance could have been put on our , to take off the streets and teach them other outside drug dealing and street . we waist so much money yet none of it our the next generation become better then we ourselves have ."
"i in our justice system before being and coming to prison and meeting some truly amazing people ."
"just need more freedom"
"i have come to the that i do have a say in what i think and that my does matter"
"n / a"
"because i have been here almost four and have not been given the to get a better education to take with me to the world ."
"well , being on the inside looking out , i can see now where our economy is based on a background and if this country is supposed to be based on freedom and second , then why is so hard for the majority of society to grant these to people who could have simple made a poor choice or had a bad day ?"
"yes they have because since being i have seen first hand how corrupted our system is . they are not for us . we are just a to them ."
"it made me want to vote knowing that my one vote can make a difference in life and future ."
"we as have no . we are only a number to this place . we even have to pay our medical office , like sick call ."
"not really but would lick to vote for what i believe in"
"just that i thought werent exactly true"
"i am more aware of what is going on"
"i feel that i pay more attention to the going on and to the of ."
"cant vote dont care"
"i am much more aware of the fact that our society become a punitive police state rather than a restorative society"
"now i have more time to learn about it"
"yes because voting would really make an impact on those because it us"
"i now realize how low a priority people are and how the inside dont get known to the people outside so they can be on . the people that make the prison reform need to experience it or have a on to really know the ."
"before prison i didnt care about . now i realize it ' s that attitude that up this country"
"seeing and with how the system is ran my on a lot . plus being more in tune to what is going on"
"i am more aware of since i have been sober"
"learned and want to better the world . being here made me a better me . i want to vote for the right and help . make up for i have made ."
"before my experience here in prison i was oblivious to the core that the prison population have . from adequate medical care in prison to fair . before coming to prison i that prison was reserved for people who were considered a clear and present danger to society . however , sadly , my personal experience been that there are far too many non - violent / drug the prison system . which down to the foster care system when 1 or both are another generation of men and . its sad and the approach that been taken not worked ."
"no answer"
no
"i guess now i can be more informed and now that i am a there are certain that follow the ."
"i in the system until seeing it up close and how the is acting concerning trump"
"before it was the question of """" what can prosper me ."""" now it ' s """" what can i do to help my country and the people in it . who is best for my country , and who is willing to sacrifice for the greater good ."""""
"been watching more news on the impeachment and how the is treating people in and he dont care about but him self"
"i am more aware of the in the world"
"i want to do right for a change"
"i now take making my voice count more serious i came into prison young i think that as i have mature and my about life as i want to make life better for . my"
"nope ."
"its more important to me now then what it was"
"we need someone in office that is for the people or not"
"its taught me its important who we have in office"
"the , people , , the are in so much chaos , and , poverty , the get , and the get ."
yes
no
"for the and do think we should get good time and a chance"
"i have more attention to politics"
"being in prison a different outlook on like racial and mass incarceration"
yes
"i know what it like to be locked up and not to be everything in your mind when from the world"
"i feel more strongly who the president should be ."
"with the gun i feel like people kill people and giving them the right to have is just like giving dope to an addict"
"learned a little more"
"i care more where as before i really didnt care at all"
"in here you or your voice matter . the only concern they have of you is if your following the ."
"at first i didnt have one , now i do ."
"it not the system change is remains the same"
"watching the news more while locked up i can see all the stuff the does if the dont all agree . the is to be for the people . like in world the impeachment . the people for trump but the dont like the way he is working . if the people didnt like what he was going to do then why didnt we vote for him"
"i feel like they tell us one thing and do a other"
"in the amount of time spent there been an number of shooting ' s due to gun violence a major here ."
"the political view mainly because my entire perception and perspective . now an citizen , i must focus on certain that i might have once or to care about . why ? because , one of those men who once does not want to return to prison just because i had to regress to crime in order to survive ."
"despite what did to limit our post conviction . i have found myself becoming more and more liberal ."
"give people a second chance that have never been . out ."
"and society as time still for me , i have to keep up with the ways of the world in order to form a valid political belief ."
no
"because new are always that can make or brake a sentence for a lifer . y"
"well i know a little bit more about how it works"
"keep getting by the . people"
"i feel that being locked up for so long is no about money than trying to help someone ."
", customs , , , leadership needs to change for favor for the poor"
"the united is faced with a multitude of . the people of the united are divided , more now than they have ever been and this is causing them to lose sight of the real . the government ' t supporting ' s veteran ' s the way it used to . there is a lot of discussion about mental health crises , but no one is the root issue . it is a lit easier for them to justify the reason they think something , as to the real reason it did . race and injustice are another main issue . i don ' t think it what color your skin is , you have experienced some sort of injustice before in your life . i do not judge by the color of one ' s skin , but by the content of one ' s character . i believe that racial discrimination is a fall system used by many to avoid the real cause , or heart , of the issue . if law enforcement comes into a neighborhood a return on an arrest warrant and the neighborhood is predominantly - , the"
"the election of trump my political view extremely"
"before becoming , my political on my social , now i have become a freer thinker ."
"i now feel it is important to vote for the right person . _ù ÷"
nope
"i thought the were fair in helping be and pay and return to society . now i know the government is not only all but if someone is in a political office that automatically they are more of a criminal and have greater potential for harm to people and than i ever was ."
"more interested"
"no opinion"
"i have more time to think about my"
"a should be from the"
"i used to belive are the """" ideal """" political party now ever since trump took office seen that he is and really trying to improve our united from that other whether or not try to inflict on us because i want to feel to be an and safe and truthfully even though i can honestly say that to be an all thanks to the republican and trump . it me not want to take my freedom for and appreciate the united more ."
vote
"well now i have time to watch the news so i can see whats going on in the world"
"i never used to care about politics before i got . locked up ."
"i believe there needs to be a real and serious look on prison reform , how we handle while , how we reform and reintegrate into society , what we do to engage real social and restorative justice as a part of the criminal justice system , and the use of parole . all of these are set by the """" political system """" within this country , and i ' seen first hand the corruption that within the . we need a better way ."
"the are old and then need to get new"
"learned more"
"at first i did not understand voting at all . now i see more into it now ."
"yes because i understand that being republican is suppose to be in according to constitutional law but it only a front to mistreat people of another country ."
"prior to my i was not as to people in prison or jail , now i see how easy one can be in this for the simplist of . yes hold people accountable , but once the trial been let people get on with their . and stop for profit and ."
"i have had time to think an learn stuff"
"being some of my political because now i get an up - close look at what a mess the criminal justice system is and understand mass incarceration more . also , they ' because now i have more free time to scrutinize more closely ."
"since being lock up i see what other go"
"prior to being i was more interested in other . i was at 17 of age . at such a young age i was not able to vote , so it was not something that my interest . now , i am 36 , and i ' m a different person . the state of in our country very much me now ."
"no answer"
"i rather not say ."
"i have seen the good side of bad and the bad side of good and every where ."
"i see how wasteful and cruel the system is ."
"cause the can brake whatever and and nothing to them but i brake a law and go to prison"
"because it me see better now"
"i am more aware now ' i am older ."
"its a whole different view of life , i never understood that the justice system is by the of the people for . 1"
"when i came to prison i was 17 old . all of my political around my self . now my politics are by that i have decided to live my life by . first and foremost , ."
"it all about money and no mater the"
"just have put my self around people i usually would not around an have herd all different an so the mind up"
"i have a difficult time expanding on the question ."
"i watch more news"
"while , a person time to gather knowledge if he or she , pertaining to politics . we learn a lot , see a lot , thus our change because we have time ."
"they have tremendously my on life used to be for left wing but now i feel like they are right wing"
"i pay more attention to whats going on in the world"
"i think about politics differently now than before"
"i have seen both sides of the justice system and it is so , so sad . working for the government and now being a prisoner . the way . say one thing and then do another . word play . with no substance ."
"i really ' t think that the prison population was as high as it was when i was on the outside . being doesnt let me see , it me see , that there is a problem with the prison population ."
"i used to be for the . however they have really made a . fool . of with . this . trump stuff"
"yes because i see how certain seem to screw over ."
"we see nothing year by year . more time for everyone no 2nd . political are not our !!!!"
no
"my view is that we all need help in some sort of way , so why is it only the rich get off on crime"
no
"i am person"
"i thank is full of"
"being made me see people from all and it me to look at from different and i feel like it me to not listen to most other on because most people just go along with what want to hear or think that unless the government is giving them something for nothing then its no good . it me to want to fix the and get the out that haven ' t hurt no1 and see our system fixed"
"i believe there should be better for and because people are getting too much time for their crime that doesnt make sense"
"since i ' been down ."
"its b . s . give one his and let him be . even if he was or in the wrong . his healing can begin and so may his family and society . there is not a line that is good on one side and bad on the other . the them start with the power when they were us . that power lead to the corruption that made them them ."
"prior to , i , like many that people in prison where simply the rotten , . i ' t know how hurt often far more them than the inmate , emotionally , health wise and financially . i ' t realize how over the system was . also , i have far more time to pay attention to politics as , face it , what else do i have to do ?"
"i didnt care before . didnt even know who was rep or . now i know and understand the importance it in our country"
"that . need a bracket in the . penal system and can easily now play rape and once a victim of is a way for most to keep on with out ever being at get out of legal system card a flaw its to engage in sex with a 16 year old but god for bid you send or a naked flick by the chick child another up way to just get a conviction dont care if you . if you was first being . . at for . jay . walking do to them being they . just . book you . for . every little . thing . keep you locked up see . the . state . of . the . rate they take all your by 20 . plus to make it look good . but . its they make you . stay in longer"
"nope_ù ÷"
"i what to see less squabbling and more done"
"politics are a bunch of people trying to look good for the moment . i watch the news and see the second and first chance act in the for people . what about the ? what about violent . how many of me do you think will return to prison ? they let drug and sex off easy . but i hurt a man physically under a circumstance i get 180 nobody for a me ."
"the system is corrupt"
"they have only slightly . for the most part i have become more educated in the works of our so justice system and am to help in its reformation or reconstruction if necessary . not sure how we can call ourselves the land of the free and have one of the prison in the world at the same time . if you dont give people second , they ' give up on being law abiding ( at least most of them will ). that and every registration and parole system is designed to put people back in prison for no reason . i know a guy who his parole for making a page . seriously . and then he had to come back to prison . how the hell is it legal to do that to people ?"
"yes are people to if u say u want every to vote then let all vote even"
"i pay more attention"
"y no me el coco"
"never took much time to listen to news going on around me . now all i have is time"
"yes it what they do me"
"to be honest yes it my political in the regard that i am so much more informed now . i dont just listen to what say i am able to do my and to learn like in the current presidential what the for really stand for and even more so what i stand for and what i believe we as a country stand for untied"
"i used to be more independent leaning the democratic party . now , i find myself being more and always seem to agree with republican"
"i use to be of being a - , i would praise being and took pride in it . however , i refuse to stand for those who look at my as rapist , gang and serial . yet if you sit back and do the it will show that most mass , or terroristic on the homeland are from"
"yes .... being become more about politics and can halfway see the be out"
"because i can now see or now i pay attention to what is going on around me and how politics are now affecting"
"being my political in many ways . one way is in how the is on the inside . the fact that mass incarceration is this go to for dealing with simple such as marijuana , child support , and traffic . not to mention since being locked up , i tend to pay more attention to whats happening in society and how to effect change ."
"most . everything in these is about politics . but as i get older i can ' t help but think of my future like i do since we ' had this current pretender in office . my are currently because their father been absent from their life for 16 , and will god willing be getting out on 8 / 26 / 2020 , to face deportation to a country by the name of , can you imagine whats going on through their young right now as they watch the news which are being by news from that side of the world . this current president nothing but uncertainty in the of and in the of our . never in my life did i think that my would be watching the news more than i do , and all because right now my future along with of other are in limbo . so yes , my political have tremendously ."
time
"yes because i have time to think and sitting in prison me to observe whats going on in the country and the world . when i was out in the world i never really . understood of what was going on"
"i want to vote more , cause every vote the people we put in office affect on me my family and the future life to come if stop in office than we can lieve a healthy planet for the ' on"
"yes , we dont need a crooked president ."
"because i feel that i have more empathy for people who are struggling and a greater understanding of what it like to have no say in the world around you . also i have had of time to think on my own of to like prison reform ."
"n / a"
"i have gotten to experience another dimension of where part of the population ."
"is a horrible idea ."
"yes but its because of this tablet i ' been political science and now i understand our government and whats going on in it by whats going on like i think theres a bigger issue going on then the stupid trump"
"i never really used to care about what the government did , because i ' t think that it never really to me , but as i choose to grow in prison , i my perception on the subject due to seeing that i am involved in this country , so i . mow choose to pay attention on how this country is being ran ."
"because we dont have prison"
"because prison there own thing own and just in . general . very weird"
"it i watch more of the news than i did on the streets . and now see the bias of the different news ."
"it my to of that go on in our society , not sure if i had political before being , but i have many different now ."
"i never had any political before prison cause my life was wrong not productive"
"i feel that if the right person is in office , it could impact what in prison . but finding that right person could be the thing that is hard to do ."
"i was a naive 24 year old when i came to prison . i have had 20 to sit and reflect on why i am where i am and how i got here . my political have based on those ."
"dont know"
"yes because i believe my opinion specially with all that is happening in the world"
"being wrong full"
"since i ' been i find politics more interesting"
"this place was an opportunity to educate myself in the of governing the people . back then before my incarceration the i were based on feeling . now my are based on reality ."
"i just look at different ' being with ' rapist drug of all of life , you a better of the of some or that were supposed to help . just in some of the stupid that were suppose to change and to listen to claim they did this or that to help solve the when in all truth they have just ignorant that are nothing but talking ."
"i never been in but all these it me want and try to get the right person in office to help with this"
"i have seen first hand the with prison reform and the plight of the mentally ill"
"i understand now that people of this strive to set people up to fell so the cycle stays flowing"
"i beleave the justice system needs help it lots of . like two people can do the same crime and one will get like 3 and then the other one will get 25 i that everyone should be no matter what ."
"i am hyper aware of my both politically an with lucid justification of whats right"
"well because of me more time to think"
"i dont know the answer"
"i ' politics a key role in and out of prison . so choosing a side that better the will change view in politics"
"i have come to understand more clearly the of freedom and only wish i had and those even if i have come to that those are being slowly removed from and most people don ' t even realize it ."
doing
"never really been into and now i find myself watching more and more there is just so much going on that i never knew about"
"before my i was a die hard democrat . now , several later , i know my party identification is solely republican"
"my political were absent . being these to develop and to be aware of in this nation ."
"before i was i in our justice system , i it was there for true """" justice """". full of people spouting like """" innocent until proven guilty """", or """" restorative justice ."""" now that i have been on the other side now i see how people do get or just the fact you are in court most already assume you are guilty . """" well you ' re here you must be guilty ."""" or that do not fit the crime or the . and work hand and hand together and the defense side is left out of the loop . are more concerned about conviction and sentence than true justice or time that the crime . our do nothing to consider the individual they are working with . in their we are all really bad people not to be ever again , yet , we are told they we are no different than them , we just got caught and they havent . or , """" you arent bad people , you just made a bad choice """" but their and training sho"
"no explain"
"on some"
no
"i have become more aware of more pertinent that i never really considered before my incarceration"
"i as a before and then as the went by i see from an inside looking out view and seeing what they really represent and removing my racial identity from the equation and maturing and wanting certain stopped or ."
"before to prison my respect for the rule of law was . politics were not too interesting to me . but after 25 in prison , i have come to greatly care what in the world and in my own country and state . i care about and respect the need for , and i care about the people and the of the people who make the life of our country . all this , the free world , my and family , and all future ."
"yes because we are people to and the is all about keeping us in here and not helping us succeed when we get out . plus all the over a lot to do with a lot of"
"it the world we live in , and it is good to see how there trying to make a ."
"before . i ' t really care . i now care more but am less interested in because i know that i can ' t ."
"before being i ' t have any political"
"i wasnt with being"
"first time ever being , a host of people are wrongfully because politics don ' t care about actual justice , they only think of their , and how many people will help them keep their . they incarcerate people with no evidence or of any kind . truly sad . so yes my political have extremely change ."
"well being in this place you see more"
"all the"
"i ' gotten older and more educated"
"being my to the fact that there are people in this world who just do not have the same in this world that that do"
"i never really about voting or to much of anything when i was on the streets . as i have gotten older i ' been wanting to make a difference in the world ."
"politics are worried about them and the money they can raise for there"
"it made me to see the vivid picture of how the are enforced . mostly , because only get the measure of punishment , and also that the people making the are totally disconnected with reality of the impact of these . most oblivious of what actually is happening , and they only want to please their party base ."
"i am slightly more understanding for the plight of sex offender in prison and outside ."
"when i was young i was young i was reckless and foolish . i was by my and and i never thought to think about what was best for me and my family now about all of that . i think for myself with introspection and educated insight ."
"there that . been running for different that tell the public the they are going to do , and we know they ' t going to do they just tell the people that to get their support"
"i realize that our country is pretty up , and the are worried about the wrong ."
"well , before i have never been in prison . i was a 17 yr veteran in the army . i never attention to the prison politics or even to watch like . but now , now i see the filth and unjustice in this world . its horrific in the treatment of . by staff and medical personal . the fact that once your on this system , your never getting out unless you have money . for 12 i have been fighting , yet prevail nothing . in , one must have the knowledge and as a seasoned attorney . you must gain this same knowledge in less than a year . that is all the time we have to prepare and submit post - conviction . how does one know what to fight for or on or who without assistance ? i ' tell you , you don ' t . you wing it enough and pray tremendously that the court counsel . the only thing we have in prison that . us is hope . hope our reach out to us , hope that justice you , hope that you dont die ( either from old age or by the of another inmate because"
"yes because i dont think it is fair to people with the same crime to get different of time for their"
"to much"
"my regarding the criminal justice system have completely . the criminal justice system is supposed to be there to seak out the truth and if necessary to provide a punishment that the crime . it is not there to hand out life , or effective life , like they are candy . however , or criminal justice system been so perverted by the desire to win a conviction , or to pad the conviction rate of a county or parish , or to pad own status , that it is no longer about truth and . as long as the prosecutor her conviction , she does not care about truth , right or wrong , justice or injustice ."
"growing up in a black household being a or seeing their is not taught but assumed to be taken . overtime reading as a child and even now as an adult , i did give the the benefit of but now i myself an independent because i want my vote to be worked for not just a vote ."
"i use to think the system was and now i have seen hand innocent people get put away because of have to look good for ."
"the justice system ' t fair , equal , or even , it ' s more of a political view on ."
"i don ' t claim a political party but as of late i have that there been a want and or need to understand the poor , , and that have been back . the problem over , removal of god from everything and how some are really trying to . keep the moral in intact while just want to claim an office"
"the word """" """" is a miss . the way i felt about when i was a drastically as a 39 yr old man . understanding what prison reform is and what it to have change for the better and getting to no longer be dependent on the system as a safe place when get hard and control . education is for to become user friendly . i mean who another criminal living next to them thats doing criminal ? teach a man to fish , or give him one ."
"i used to not care about who was president as long as they did it with integrity and responsibly . now i would like to see president reunite this country to achieve great ."
"i care more about prison and justice reform now that it wronged me"
"now i see what truly goes on in the system and justice reform is . , the poor , and uneducated suffer many times over in the justice system ."
"i watch more then i used to so i feel more informed"
"i belive when i was on the , i never want to take mi time to care for politics , now when i am here i have time to know what is import , an what i need to do to try to make a change"
"i ' t care before . i do now ."
"yes due to the fact that i never how oppressed the inmate population was . then for all to be forced into a form of capital punishment ' t fair . we ' t lose our right to vote just because we ' re ."
"i never did the crime they all stuck to he said she say bull when my kit base on said i did not do the crime not to r d s . the w or puddock said he for got to tell the jury the can ' t on bull . find me guilt for protecting his body so the could throw the book at me ."
"yes . prior to my incarceration i had no idea of the impact politics on the whole crime and punishment issue . now i understand that locking up people is one of the a politician to keeping himself employed at an inordinately high pay scale for mostly useless work . spend an awful lot of money feeding other ' and helping wealthy stay wealthy while bleeding the lower and middle class ' dry . they are exceptionally good at ways to keep people and growing the number of people in order to fuel the prison industry . what they are clearly not willing to do is find ways to get people out of and back into society as productive . is a good example . a person of a murder to perform nearly impossible to have any hope at all of getting out of prison alive . yet on average have an unbelievably lower recidivism rate than any other group"
"i ' t tell you '."
"i feel that the government locked us away to be its like our do not matter . we are still people with and that matter ."
"come to understand that not all people are the same and if given a legit second chance , i believe most would have success with it ."
"i have been for almost 22yrs . since that time , the world in so many ways . my are open , and i see the world clearer now , than ever before . i ' m not sure if i can explain my answer , though ."
"somewhat ."
"i have seen of the political more because the that are in make that truly do effect me as a prisoner in this system ."
"well i have been since i was twenty old and before then i for basically because i him to be the first black president and people were him to so i to vote because of that it was the first and last time i older now and maturer the that i look for in a . are a lot now i could care less whether your black white or blue i just someone who will . be to prison reform and restoration of broken and be more to the idea of a prisoner who can change"
"because before i ' t care enough about political , i was to understand the vital importance of it ."
"first , i believe a lot of these should follow with a chance to explain . but as for this one , many of my going through this injustice system have brought new awareness to the of how broken are that i was never by as a voter before simply because they never impacted my life or the of the people i love . so while my main and haven ' t much , my on criminal justice , crime & punishment , racism , and other like dealing with the drug epidemic , poverty , homelessness , and the like have been with greater compassion for the of men i have gotten to know who mainly have an effective hand up or meaningful treatment . i could say so much more . _ù ÷"
"been more for prison reform lighter punishment more pro for and think the outside should be able to see more of how arent good for us in here for reform and"
no
"i ' gone from to republican , my towards the authenticity of political a little more . i don ' t trust the of at all ."
"after being i have a clearer of the truth behind such politics . example : to put a person in prison for of his life for simply failing to register is just one more reason to ask for to support mass legal human . often the time received is only base on from tax paying ...."
"i look more at what the are that they are get down if which never when they get just more that they believe we want to hear ."
"i ' gotten more interested in here i pay attention to the world news . i ' m more aware of what ' s going on out there ."
"am more open minded today"
"more in tuned with what is going on in the country , because i have time to sit down and watch more often to find out and going to library"
"cor the people"
"my view on gun control"
"watch the news . . more"
"i see voting as a right and should not be a , i see people for who they are in order to have a voice , you have to vote a closed mouth cant get feed . i need to share my portion i need to be ."
"because of the injustice in the justice system ."
"before i was i ' t believe the government affected my life so i ' t care about it . now i realize that it all with who for me for my voice to be ."
"i pay more attention to people who support prison reform ."
"matter , you want the right person in office , who the same as you do ."
"watching fox news now . all trump it was him or that ass and from ark . ran and been our first female . need people taking from the people that have the right to carry and own them . 911 been dealt with thats when i watching the . its a damn same we have still dealing and over that"
"i never really considered the prisoner ' s point of view , i ' t the effect that political had until i one ."
"only on some thin"
"we should be to better our in here not just sit around ."
"i would like in the presidency ' also , bring back"
"that wen i come in we had and now we dont"
"i pay more attention to my community , foreign , and the impeachment"
no
"i just . see . different"
"i was young and dumb and didnt really care how or who ran the the country but now that older starting to realize how much effect me"
"seen what they have and havent done as far as . prison reform and its me a different outlook on what could be done to make better"
"not really i think my about politics have stayed the same in some and in"
"just on prison time"
"i see how people with are in society . we are like trash and have no real chance to improve ourself . are correctional but they simply harass . they give us the bare minimum , tax us beyond imagination , steal from us and then charge us for what they just stole ."
"just against how society today just because they are not in prison like us that they are better than us . i say they are wrong ! the only difference is they havent gotten caught !!!!"
"the longer my incarceration drawn itself out , the more bitter and sick of my i ' m becoming . trump done many to improve my extended and their ... so not all are ruined ."
"i - c - the they dont give a about us"
"its cause i feel that is pushing the in"
"seeing the true colors of the ."
"some people are wrong in some"
"i just see that people in the free world think that we should just be locked up and throw the away . i feel that those that are close to . g out should be giving a job to where they can save up some money to be able to help them once they get out ."
"due to incarceration , i feel that there are certain that do profile racism when it comes to the faze between"
no
"i ' t really pay attention to politics before my incarceration . the way my state ( ) to follow federal me to start paying attention . they expect us to follow the law when the won ' t ."
"yes my in general over 16 as i ' and have been intentional about learning about our both nationally and ."
"now that are decided that have a direct affect upon , have a more direct affect on me so it cause me to pay more attention to law and the people making them ."
"some should ' stop a person from voting ."
"prison reform become an important issue for me"
"yes because i feel that people should still have their as well as good time for learning our"
"made me be more aware of what i feel about how people are and especially the lower class"
yes
"being in prison shown me that the system for rehabilitation reform for to law abiding is in fact not at all accurate , matter of its worse people in charge only care for the price that comes a long with our . we need to focus on the prison system to create better so upon release the are well versed and about society"
"i . look at much news and like to know whats happen"
impeachment
"before i was i was very young , so i basically had no opinion . now i am older , and have growing about my own future and the future of our society ."
"for one we fund to many , when that money should go for our , , and elderly , our very own tax , plus the prison system is one of the behind , its a scam for to cheat , the u . s . a . more people than any other country . are not considered human no matter their crime . the are far outdated"
"before i , i ' t give a crap about politics or who our president was or anything related to him . now , i care about whats going on in the us and how we the people are handling every situation . keep great ."
"there is no that ' t have a self agenda , anything to make him or herself an kind of money for self and the super rich ."
"more distrust in"
"before i thought the justice system worked . that is i thought each case was at and the correct sentence was given . in my case a minimum was in play but there was an option to downward depart for various . the number one reason is first time offender . anyway i quickly learned that the system is political first , and if they have a slam dunk case they will ( ) it to the . i deserve to be . i just wish i could be and contribute to society . if i could vote i would do more research on the ."
"i feel that the state and the . know that do not have the ' answer to fix the '''' and do not wish to look weak on so make inmate look like there all real bad . and there is no hope for then"
"affect me just as much as a civilian"
"i seem to have of time on my to actually see whats going on in the world , and i do not like what been seeing"
"i have more time to be now and seeing how impact us ."
"the reason they have is because i now understand what effect us and how and why they are important to myself and . before i was largely uninformed ."
"i would be middle . ground . i have come to . understand what the about . . of the system being and un fair . this is i live their . life right now . i care about . the environment but not in the extreme way people are trying to force . us . i believe in the us worker over the rest . i despise the fact that us collude with illegal for . control of the us but accuse falsely of the same . we must protect or second and first at all . from the class is only at bay because of that little second . t ..."
"when i was a i in the system , since my incarceration i have come across of wrong"
"because i am for a crime that actually 100 % innocent of i have become interested in finding out who will hold the corrupt who wrongfully me responsible and who will oversee these people who think that they are above the constitutional that are suppose to protect poor people like me who can prove without a shadow of doubt that i was by the dirty of the prosecution who knowingly used false evidence to obtain a conviction turning our judicial system into a climate of corruption ."
"after dealing with the politics of the judicial . system i have of my"
"is a lot of that i can not even explain my self ."
"trump got . he gas done more for this country than any other we have had this far . he gas done so much for the people , for our , and for this country . and the done for this country other than raise . not to mention that they raise for own selfish . and trump also us from to go to war , and he brought back a lot of fir the people ."
"change because the outcome of my sentence and how the been by the ."
"more understanding now then i was at one time"
"it me how to vote for a specific person ."
"well i think they r to hard on giving time"
"been able to slow down and see whats going on"
"i actually pay attention to politics now ."
"incarceration did not change my . what i have learned while my . i now have a much more informed perspective from which to opine ."
"i learning politics more"
"i see that people are not being and fall into worse and new ways to .. , we tend to have a greater for .."
"pay more attention to with the country"
"yes because only the ignorant make the of the and have no business to inform or comment on incarceration in any way . this become more of a publicity stunt and forgot that we are people not just a point to help with ."
"the president of my country is distasteful ."
"i see much more of what is on now from a ago ."
"i see the product of the broken system , i see first hand the forgotten population . are the people who need the most help , not to be in a cage ."
"i didnt know the difference between democrat and republican"
"we are living in dangerous times when being a former felon is seen as a outcast and not to be or as a result of a crime the label it hard to get hired or hard to get a place to live despite there time"
"now i understand the importance of prison reform instead of just locking people up"
"yes , because will locked up did some research and i see how much political impact the and our country ."
"i see now how bad the justice system is , and also how many people are in here for related"
"before i never who ran the country . but now i see the impact it on and the poor . and those who are caught up in the system as i am in ."
"at first i didnt care what was happing in the world but as i read / see whats going on in the world today i want change and change with me"
"its whatever"
"absolutely , i ' m more with the world ."
"i use to be for the until i found out that there not someone that i can get or stay behind"
"i am much more moderate now than i once was ."
no
"i think everyone should have an"
"i am more strongly drawn to republican because of the i have seen in here"
"yes 00"
"i tend to be more open - minded and of point of view"
"well after becoming informed my political stance from democratic to republican due to my understanding of our economic situation in being greatly affected by our abuse of government aide ."
"i wish to be more in the know , regarding my state , and country ."
"i used to not care but now i pay attention and care"
"dont want prison reform but they make you think that they do"
"now i understand the passing of certain that target black and brown"
"what u do with this , collaboration information"
"only that i ' become more interested and have to both sides on a daily basis and can now make more informed ."
"more time to , think , study and of and being ."
"as i said and have tried to get the treatment i need to prevent me from suicide . if i had been in eleven i would have received that treatment with little problem , but i ' m in , a tea party republican state and i ' had to fight tooth and nail for every little bit of treatment i ' received ."
"i am more aware of the"
"i ' v as a person 1"
"i did know how much of a my voice would make back then . i was 18 when i first got bur now i am 36 and i get it now ."
"yes i have time to sit back and look at the world"
"because we need to make the people in office do what they say when going for office instead of false"
"god ' and his kingdom will come ."
"before i did not the other side to prison . i only seen the picture that the media painted . """" all are """"."
"i have been for 25 straight , so my knowledge and understanding grown greatly ."
"i truly wish i were to vote , maybe my vote would make a difference in this country . yes my have"
"i was not much interested but once your , prison reform is an issue . we need a better chance to . its suppose to be department of """" """" being key but we are just and not corrected to be better to return to society as a role ."
"i feel more towards independent"
"yes . i now realize that the government of is concern about its whom are . they want to help us succeed upon release . i admire trump for his stand on prison reform ."
unsure
"i have had a lot of to pay attention to the news and political"
"i was an democrat , but now i am a republican ."
"i now have god in my life and many of my have"
"being lock up i have the time to look at the whole picture ."
"seeing it from a different side"
"before i ' d used to think that it didnt matter if i or not , they are going to put whoever they want in office . but i di see that i do , have a voice and an opinion despite my crime ."
"i would like to see more change for the people on the inside so don ' t come back again"
"treat people equally . spend more time in court the first time and get correct"
"hate what the state done"
"i use to be ignorant with my as i ' t really look at the , i at the who would talk as to whether they trustworthy , i now pay attention to the and not who is speaking , i do what homework i can ."
"the system is not meant for anyone , how can people even be if your still going to hold our past against us . you say you send us in to be corrected but then you dont even look at our to see . if we are even being better but then you want to keep us on parole and . after we serve our time it should be just that . after that the legal system shouldnt have anything to do . wi"
"well now instead of voting for we need to on fixing the with sending to out of state privately human"
"because they will throw anyone in prison"
"before incarceration , i was very ignorant to the of politics on me as an individual and all the / i and my family could be subject to on any given day ( e . g . , education , gun , public aid , min wage , .). now , because 1 ) i ' been subjected through the judicial , and 2 ) because i ' had time to read - political ; i ' m more informed of the importance of being knowledgeable and involved in the making of these ."
"yes , i used to not care either way"
"good time needs . to be raised in"
yes
"i think the are"
"i thought that the system was out to help when i first got in trouble when i was 19 . i soon found that was not the case at all . later in life i good good with a lawyer who told my that the government was in so many ways . of the set into place come along after something to a like a house or state rep so that they get to keep their seat . but it those lower in standing . he sat and told me that most have a quota of people that they must make with . for example he would plead my out to a sentence in prison so that the son of the local da could get 6 probation . then the revolving door to move again for those of us who want to do in society we are now and marked . even if the . were it still dont help the real . the fact the the system is seriously %$&# up . the people who set the . in motion are always wanting to make more and more money and will lie to do so . why dont the"
"we are just a number to all and are used for political gain"
"yes before i never really to vote but since i have been its the most now ."
"a innocent man in prison for something i did not do and we need some one who will fight for you when you are a innocent man in prison"
"i think that there is of wrong with the system"
"yes never really thought about race divided until prison"
"yes , i have been paying more attention to the government news"
"i know i ' m innocent in my case . i even have medical evidence proving my but , because i ' m a male and it ' s a sex case , i have been found guilty without any , any circumstantial , physical , electronic , or photographic evidence and despite that my accuser never told the same tale twice . so , i see clearly that our justice system needs a complete overhaul to once again be about justice . before this , i thought that everybody deserved to be there and that all of the that to be innocent were just who were trying to escape their guilt . now , because of my case , i see differently ."
"in a nut shell i have that their are , , and in the human race . some are in prison . some are in politics / government ."
"i pay closer attention to world politics than i did before but still view as deceitful with hidden agenda ' s ."
"i never about anything with politics and had no idea what effect at what political group"
"more . attention on . news"
"yea because now . the news been more informed about what is going on with our and what theyre doing for the community and people on this country"
"there is some people who should be here and probably never get out while there is some that just need help with maybe a drug problem . or so on"
"i no longer care about any of it"
"i hate the government being in i just want to be left the alone ."
"there are many , but in a nutshell i would have to say that there are of educated people in prison and they have some good insight into . i think should be part of the process , because we are still tax and have no representation ."
"the way people are in prison"
"i now have time to see the crap the political system is doing to the poor and uneducated"
"i pay attention more to and see how be different"
"everyone a past . i believe in second . i used to think different . people can change ."
"trump is the best this country had since ."
"like to be free"
"see how bad the system is"
"i did not follow politics when i was on the streets , but now i do ."
"i used to have the same that probably the majority have about . though i have always that some are actually innocent , and are wrongly , and / or maliciously and ; they are , thats what they deserve . well during my time in prison , i have come to know that many are people too . they have , . they are and sons ; , . for many , prison , is unfortunately their . but for the rest , they are people who just made that one stupid mistake , they took it just a little than they or . and when those people who were , they are no . longer innocent ; those who made that one stupid mistake , it the rest of their life as well . they get out of prison , they cant cope with , they commit suicide or become -- a criminal . for those whose this is their , have no . ; they will be back , they know it , this is were they are comfortable ."
"i am much more in tuned with the political climate but find it hard to express my"
"when i first went to prison i was 19 and i have learned myself and . i now am firm in my and have been taught a lot now that i have to news and t . v"
"for the first time in the half century i ' finally got to witness someone like trump that is not a and actually his , its wonderful !"
"i feel like ever since my incarceration i have different on"
"i feel that of people just pick a side because there black or white not dont take time to look for the best"
"i actually believe to some degree the people in these would like to fix they point to , therefore i would probably listen to their case and vote ."
"our in to all should always be on making better in all . rather its , education , more good time for , more helping to prepare to be civilized in their , regardless of race ... it should always be helping the nation better ."
"because growing up only that , that concerned our community did we care about not who the president is or who going to be next to try and our"
"because my are more open then they where before my"
"we keep getting who keep worrying about the wrong . i think it is about time for a godsend who the most important that need to be done , done first instead of that don ' t really matter ."
"all government is wrong"
"no comment"
"because we ' t to vote"
"if more people had a voice maybe there would be to benefit the"
no
no
"i am more informed now"
"more for helping those and the need for our government to look at"
"one of the in are the that prey on the . they do so by several manipulative tactics . i have that the same to politics as well . the """" people ' s vote """" is a crucial part to the political system because it is our vote that who will take official and , like in prison , one must learn to look past all the grandeur and splendor in order to discover the true of other people and test the veracity of those . with that being said , our downfall is greed and when we """" discover """" the of certain and / or then we suffer the vulnerability of corruption . now , when you combine both greed and politics one can discover what really these in position . this is why i feel that it is critical that we start paying attention to what is really being said by potential and so that we can make more rational instead of most of our of"
"i thought longer would help i was very wrong ! to help people with why and how to change ( if willing ) are greatly . don ' t change hearts . we have a punishment system that like society just to lock up and sometimes and forget about them ."
no
"i have always agreed with the on most , but i now see are not interested in helping reform . they hate us . also they fail to see the lack of serious need for mental health research and treatment . most need real help ."
"i once simply that the were a friend since they most often declared themselves of prison / judicial reform . i have found this to not be true . both are equally uninterested in ' real ' reform . they are only interested in a change of departmental leadership ."
"i ' become more aware of . and about the importance of voting for who run on a more platform than their ."
"i ' more attention . i used to think if you were locked up you deserved whatever to you . that it was to treat any way . now i realize the history of them as in a complex political system . either people have value or they don ' t . i look past the surface of what is being said . i lean on guidance from the spirit inside . open to what other people think and feel ."
"i am more informed concerning the political realm and the inner - of"
"i want to make it know how the state of the law every day to benefit their needs a prison in and is just a number or slave ."
"i believe that they need prison reform and people who are in minimum custody need to be to reduce prison population . it needs to be 50 % or more good time"
"being is difficult but politically this country . of to . get in"
"while i care about who is in office"
"i use to think that people in prison to be there and now that i have had with many it that only people with without money are here if can afford a real lawyer you for the most part wont go to prison or will get much less time our system the rich and the poor"
"trump in my of and he made our country look bad ."
"yes it because seeing first hand"
"before getting locked up i never really thought about politics . since being i watch the news every day and i speak to to my sister about politics . my understanding is much better now ."
"before i i didnt understand the prison system and the our nation with over and mass incarceration . now that i am part of the system i see it daily and feel it . i would never vote for a that they will be hard on . that only more of the same problem that we have now . i would support those who are about and the that the offender is in . change the world change the person ."
"i used to believe in a fair criminal justice system and that right thing . i have learned over its all about money & power ."
"i ' m more into politics more then ever because i see what the power of voting will do ."
"yes , before prison i ' t have a care about the of life you could manage to get by . but once you you damn near can ' t get a decent job that will help you stay above the line of middle class . you have scrap and do dirty stuff to stay afloat with all the of our because everything you need to buy just going up in price but our pay stays the same for way to long . so it us down while the rich have it better . but some of us are just as smart as the rich but we have to struggle cause we have to fight fot our stance in society ....."
"i have become more informed since being ."
"yea found out the people dont care if your"
"¨\\\ ¨\ ©, 7 * 5475c &^?*&> _  ¢ ¨ ´` © ± ± ¡ ¢ © ¢"
"i don ' t feel the same way about all as far as go for some"
"i use to belive that all serve their entire sentence . then i experienced unlawful against me that me in prison for 40 and then physically forced to serve 40years and a day ."
"r skewed , , toward certain , , , , and unfairly , unjustly"
"because i watch more t . v . so i ' m more to what ' s going on . before i was too busy with ' life ' ."
"more concerned about prison"
"i see / feel a greater need to support those who support and stand firmly on truth ."
"i know whats real"
"because i have seen a lot of that were unjust ."
"i feel like everyone locked up should have a chance to vote"
"i used to not care or pay attention to politics . now taken some time to watch and learn a little . also more in our future"
"cause i see the need . to reform prison"
yes
"more informed so i . can form a opinion"
"being locked up forced me to pay attention to the news in general , watching of ."
"i am more aware of the power a people when their collective voice is used to make themselves and felt . and how necessary it is to be aware and willing to be involved in the way we allow ourselves to be ."
"that effect us as matter more"
"yes before i got lock up i didnt have time for politics now i search for the best in the country and i can participate in what they are about and see that voting is what make great"
"i have and seen from a different angle the treatment that those who are face . people out there think that for petty the offender should serve prison time , not knowing the full extent of what a prison sentence would do to a person for any period of time ."
"i see the cultural and it me ."
"yes they have been change and dew to me being a a long time ago hurt me ' to to help with the percentage that would to help someone get ."
"since i have been i have become an adult . so rather than say my political have i would say that i am my political standing now . i don ' t know exactly where i stand . i am not that in touch with politics though i should be ."
"before my incarceration i didnt have any . but since i have had time to inform myself and educate myself on many and how they can affect me and my family"
"i now know that those in power only seek to divide us . yet they claim to desire to unite us . what ever to """" one nation , under god """"?"
"become more conservative"
"my political have because i cannot vote ."
"i am less and more aware of reality . entertainment ."
"i have never been part of the criminal system before this and had no idea how bad it is . i my country honorably and was and of a crime i did not commit and have cried innocence the whole time and was hit over the head ."
"i came to prison very young , 18yrs old i once that i was a now older and wiser more of the mind of a republican , one who a middle ground if such ground exist ."
"yes it because before i did not care about that stuff at all , but now i have an for it so i see how important it is to vote matter ."
"yes , before i wasnt to worried about but my have now from my ."
"i see as an adult that had time to grow instead . of a young"
not
"i have been watching a more politics then i was on the streets"
"yes . i now would vote as a republican . even though i think that would more likely help the , i ' m more religious and my religious fall more towards republican ."
"i find that i am more of a conservative these days"
"before , i did ' care"
"i never had an , now that ."
"to many political about how to give more people with small petty time in prison instead of helping reform them with to help them be productive giving people"
"i sue to think president was dumb n racist but i can under stand there point of view"
"i pay more attention to what say . and , i am not when i know . they should be saying something , but are not ."
"i used to be for every new weapon the military could design , but now i feel we ' built more than we could use . strength in is not always a good philosophy ."
"i ' t think much about voting . i now look at the we face on a daily bases . i understand the importance of voting ."
no
"yes , they have . somewhat because everything different from inside here . and the way i personally look at politic and politics is like instead of two main political , it to me like there are two big """" """" fighting for their own territory and their own but those of the interest of the people . also , i now know that we """" """" are not of the most interest of those in power , and the only way we might gain some sort of interest by is that we may be the right to vote ."
"the criminal justice system only works for the rich and famous . i . e . there are whom are . comes to mind . a quarter of n . f . l . . they are . a poor person no such advantage . for example court work for the very people who are trying to convict them . is no balance . poor people do not get get country club and for twenty or thirty days . nor special provision when they are actually in prison ."
"please refer to my previous answer ."
"i see . more clearly the"
"yes because i feel that if we want some in the system and the world we have to put the right people in the to make these right for our system and country"
"not all people are bad in prison most are pretty nice just got bad are they just got caught and they do have innocent people in here and they are some that need to stay they need to have a better good time release and not just for drug"
"yes i think less prison , and more reform , should be used , look at , a person there can be of a crime and still be to work in . they have very few prison ' s in as they don ' t believe in locking everyone up , or ( 10 ) year old prior to add more time to a current conviction , i already did time for my in 1986 why was i for them on my current sentence is that not double ??????"
"i used to have a naive view towards politics by thinking all had their best in mind . this , of course , could hold true for a small percentage who attempt to better what they with the power of their station . i ' only the majority who have this power and divided our country ."
"id rather be involved with it all than id love to teach my 2 how much of an honor it is to be involved with than as an citizen over a crime i wish i could erase ."
"i say this politics is what our nation"
not
"i ' switched from as a democrat , but instead libertarian with conservatism over the social aspect ."
"my insight into the criminal justice system shown me how flawed it is and how much it needs to be ."
"because i think they are trying to help people that are in prison more now then before when i was in the last time"
"people on the outside don ' t see what really goes on in prison . it ' s way different when doing time in prison then when you just see or read about it ."
"i know more about how our justice system works dealt with it and seen it from the inside . i also hear about many and see many and ."
"although i don ' t watch or keep up on , i do think about differently that i would like to see , i our , state and country ."
"i never about or prison reform until coming to prison ."
"i know more than i did"
"war on"
"in the i chose to vote on how the candidate express himself and never check his back track"
"i have the of the radical left and all of the liberal communist scum ."
"give me the chance to vote and people like """" trump """" will never get in office ."
slightly
"before i was i had two i raised on my own since the day they were born and then got with the most woman from since high and was a company with the most amazing woman i never thought i would have in my life , and at this time of my life i had no of political and when people a crime i thought they did it and deserved the punishment for there crime little did i know how the are at this time . i always had respect for the law of our country and always them when over , and still will do the same but with knowing a lot more about my in the situation . and when people are of a crime i will never say the i did before , but only hope for there innocence ."
"was a teen when locked up , myself as to political led me to be an economist as it to support most of my catholic ."
"it given me a clear view of what is"
"i was 18 now i am 23 , i have and my thinking a great amount ."
"yes because i am a person thats that but with me being in the system since i was 18 an now 29 , prison reform could of me ago but it was never a topic of discussion . the i have seen an how i was instead of out my time , just me to push to get my high school diploma which in the of my time they kept telling me that my sentence was too long for me to get my diploma an its now 2019 i finally was able to apply myself an get . i can only imagine the that dont have the motivation to keep focus or the opportunity to better they self because the system in 2019 still no or the people with the or the training to help the people thats . so whoever read this please help us ."
"seeing which party a better agenda ."
"yes , because i grew up in a time where the that are going on in this generation were non - back in the , although one thing that ' s always been true is the level of racism here in the united and in other . and it like our are doing nothing about it , but then again we have a little thing freedom of expression . and it just to me that the fat in office are just worried about who ' s got the , and there for money and ."
no
"they dont care"
"since being locked up been able to notice certain that i didnt before"
"i am strongly about doing the right thing and trump i believe is to do the right thing for us and the left is only out to get him out of office"
"because it the official that behind the mass incarceration"
"before being locked up . i in the legal system to do the right thing . but now i can see its about making career . and them to step on people so they can move forward"
"because until you see society from the underbelly your just being lied to . i would have never thought people would treat you so harshly based on a . i had a sex offender right next to me and ' t treat him different . i ' m for people who give people a second chance . a real second chance ."
"i have more knowledge in many of politic which i ' t have before . i have seen how being ignorant can affect life in these ."
"i have watch more about our on or reading it the newspaper"
"i see more where we need to make as before incarceration . i also see other sides to prison / prison reform than i had previously ."
"i see who is running this county and how . fake news the out come ."
"yes because i feel as if been on my case , i made one wrong choice now i will suffer for it for the rest of my life . not right at all ."
"i didnt have an opinion before nor an interest"
"i was never into politics like i am now"
"personal view ."
"i think if people were raised here in the united , leave them alone and don ' t rip them away from their . there is more here in the united that do more criminal then the but the do something wrong and they get sent to another that they never been to in their life , which their life in danger in that country . that is not what is about ."
"i ' how up the system and the are"
"this system is such a waste and does so very little to prepare anyone to return to society especially financially and up for failure without any money ."
"cause it the way i can help the or put my point of to the who would listen ."
yes
"are are not"
"i have a lot more knowledge about ! there for i see !"
"that we need a new president"
"my , prison time , and the opportunity it to reflect , read , and self educate freed me to , and . same core , but realization that a ) our decline is inevitable , as a historical event , and b ) politics cannot stop it ( even if were not strictly self - interested )"
"well , i used to believe that i my belief system was based on democratic perspective but now i after of research that i am a republican through and through ."
somewhat
"i have seen that . those in political power have no . care . in the world about . the man . they come to visit for fifteen and think they know what prison is like . the dont . see . the , , rape , mistreatment by . and the . state and those in office stand . by and do nothing . they spend money to . send . people out of state . as . to that money . to . help . learn a trade or get the help they need . in final . those in . office simply dont care ."
"i am more conservative now with a strong """" first """" attitude ."
"because when . i was one the outside i was to busy involved in other that i didnt get the to really sit a listen to and their agenda but now , since more is i have more time ."
"because we lost all when the put us in prison for are"
"listening to the news"
"feel we lose some"
family
"world change constantly ."
"i was all about of everything i got here . for i am here ti serve my time to the people for what i have done . now the people are make money off my of the people of my state helping me fix my not a bottom line of a corporation who to stock not the people of my state . take for the medical the company here in . they charge us 2 for all medical help . now how can that company stay in at that rate other than charge the state that a flat rate to them and on top of that give there staff for not spending the money provided to them for my care . that is how they make money by care . if i am the word of the state they are not . some should not be ."
"i have had more time to think about what i think would be best for me and for our country as a whole and i ' discovered the value of criminal reform ."
"prison reform is"
"i have become more aware of the political world , which me to become more open minded about certain ."
"not the direction of my , but my desire to act on them . i worry about our future generation ' s ability to continue living on this planet . it ' s time we thought of humanity as a whole and not the individual , and a little more respect to our habitat ."
"being you not only want to change but it of you feel like its important for you to be apart of the change and you have nothing but time to educate your - self about stuff that really didnt even matter to you before of people who grew up in my neighborhood never expressed or stress to us how important politics are ."
"yes because everything is considered for us people"
"i did ' have any before"
"as a felon , i feel like i dont have a say in this country my right to vote was taken away ."
"yes because i believe trump deserve to be president because he his power ."
"most definitely because of how this president no for a person that ' s ..."
no
"the reason how war is"
"i have become more aware of the need for criminal justice reform"
"i see what is going on in the country . and what needs to be done . however the need to stop fighting and work together"
no
"i used to think that of and people in power were just bad people in general . but i come to figure out that some my thinking ."
"i ' seen how much is between and is really petty . i also think all should get away from the """" all or nothing """" electoral vote . and that there should be a mandatory thirty or in the house to be for due to an extreme lack of vote . that way anything will need to be less extreme sided ."
"i no longer judge people by the worst thing they have done . i understand now that often criminal justice is causing the of it was nominally designed to prevent , this is easily acknowledged by the system with the on the continent . after spending time in close proximity with people i don ' t actually like , i can see their humanity and my own easier , and understand that often while we attribute a specific act to an individual , a large part of the responsibility with our society in how we choose to treat mental health , , and other we don ' t like . remember criminal justice is by definition reactionary , that prevention by longer and how people actually think ."
"cause i had time to sit and really listen to what they have to say and how they effect us in prison ... ."
"its me another view on how this world really not only that when gone i my to be albe to live life without to worry about certain or there skin color"
"becoming sober fifteen ago while is the element behind this answer ."
"yes in would vote democrat because they are talking about prison reform and such . are more for more and . they dont have the same interest for the lower class and dont seem to care ."
"over the from just the time to be more engage into the politics . i was raised up to be an . yet the more attention i ' gave over time brought me to the reality of the pettiness by the and even now more the ever their are out the window . with all the madness they ' keep up these past few ."
"it ' s hard to have people find a solution to mass that don ' t get a first hand view of it and how are system is"
"i never really thought about my political i was 16 yeara old upon arrest but knowing that the are being on us from the top i ' m curious where they formed their in order to pass their came from . i believe had i not been i would of actually gotten involved in politics . not as high as white house material but congress or something that can make an impact on society ."
"yeah , look who is president , trump , and he just got . what is the world to ?"
"cause one side is for prison reform and the over and to pass to lessen drug and non"
"i realize that no matter who we vote for , they all seem to fail us in some way as we are not as important to them as they tend to make us seem ."
"i never about politics before . now i realize that i had a voice i never used and now i will never have the to use ."
"look at how bad it is and compare this hell hole to a modern day plantation . wouldnt you want better of you were poor ?"
"before i didnt care about politics and now i see the need fot it"
"i wish that i could have a voice ."
"i never had any at all about politics untill after i was sent to prison ."
"i have a desire to not just speak on the of but now because of my gain in understanding the i strongly wish to act or be a support in the political world for which i stand and more .."
"i ' m more for people who are willing to help us in the system ."
"i was and a strong republican after incarceration both sides enjoy the contract money and of"
"i see how the system is run from the inside and i dont agree with it . i get out of prison in 2 and 9 and to get out because i now know how little help we get and how even after we ' our time for our crime we still get down upon and have such a hard time getting and living a good life ."
"to start with i ' been locked up my whole life and now that i ' m an old man i look at different than i did as a ."
"yes my n my"
"before i could care less what went on in the world , but incarceration gave me time to do . i ' never watched the news before . now i do . the only thing that for me being are being taken away . that is more local the national . is the next president going to change how treat their .... i highly doubt it . in here in i ' mostly negative . there is only punishment no discipline . true discipline right behavior ."
"it you pay close attention to what are being . because they normally look good but they have a under tone that those that are ."
"i have willfully chosen to read about politics , government and the history thereof"
"i have had more time to become informed . also because i am trying to make the world a better place , anyway i can . being me how up really are in this country ... need to change . i never knew growing up that the government the terrible that happen to us . then the system systematically our through the corruption of low level doc for various ..."
"i see between the on most whats on is by some one and most likely there even if its fake or twisted or bias or politically ."
"n / na"
"no . longer . in . mental . slavery"
"yes the prison system if up it needs to up graded to help"
"there is no justice in the world ."
"learning what represent"
"dot feel my voice"
"i have had more time to talk about politics and have learned a lot about different and what is actually going on in our country to help me change my ."
"because since 2015 have gone down hill fast for the"
"while being i have seen first hand the crazy that say that they will do for the people , but once they are in office they change nothing for the better of anybody . except for trump , he ' s done more for than anyone else since ."
"i pay more to were the going"
"i ' t think they were that important but i that """" voting """" especially our can promote our of wanting a person in office that we believe will reform the judicial system properly into giving certain and lesser and not a criminal history against them !"
"i ' become more aware to ."
"my life went from being the 1 % in socioeconomic status to a sex offender in prison ."
"before becoming i was an individual that was not much into politics . until i a group call reaching out from within i didnt fully understand politics that can and do help people ."
"yes i was of crime i did not commit and even have the judge on record saying my testimony was proven in court and anyone who at it can easily see this and i was given 50yrs for basically going to third base w / a woman who lied to try to save her marriage and inks that rape . the judge said he thought the sentence was to harsh but had to go with the set . i had jury who were retired from same courthouse , w / on my case and several more . the public defender cross me on stand and now behind trial strategy in almost unimpeachable . won several small but not new trial . so the corruption of the justice my and after13yrs of and not being able to afford a real lawyer yes !"
"now i am more interested in politics than never before"
"i have lost all respect for the system in to reform an rehabilitation . so much money is set aside for an education so people don ' t have to continue on in this vicious cycle ."
"i just been able to keep up with it lately"
"too many"
"the political whether it be republican or . the shadiness of either party . not really for the people"
"is in prison"
"i could made a different"
"look my view of in prison we all should have a job 400 . 00 $ per month per inmate would help the keeping prison up and for keeping them working to feel they did something . pay our and help our on the out side . the crime would go down . in here like bib leadership toast all can help . plus those that want to educate like me getting my degree . cant afford every class nor when i get out will i have much to start over on . right now they act racist certain for what to not let them be able to have a chance in life . some like mine if they had at the first i wouldnt be here now . now me and those involved have to go to to try to show the proof we have to finally clear my name because the didnt want to address it in court while in prison ."
"i now tend to see how much the right people can change wide and"
"nope ."
"i love trump and all he done , and what he still could do ."
"i am more prone to believe in the ownership of - type . also ' the current drug and incarceration are not working ( should get a different type of incarceration ( ))."
"i also consider criminal reform ."
"because i watch all of the from in here and feel that if we had a voice from inside the prison system more people would have a change of mind on us ."
"no sex no parole no and no registration ."
"i have more attention to politics sense my incarceration"
"i am more political and lean too conservative liberal ."
"i think more"
"i used not really care"
"i have more knowledge about how my life is by political make . if they know i can vote or my voice it may change how they make ."
"i see people in here that don ' t belong here because of simple ."
"i said yes because i have seen a little bit about the president and and other political stuff . i it . at about 10 % that i like politics . if i can and if i remember going to try to listen more on politics . if i can even try to go to college . undecided . again only 10 % into politics ."
"more conservative"
"yes they change i use to not talk about it and know every now and then i do"
"i st"
"i keep to myself"
"more conservative in of ."
"support alo of sin . i was a democrat . no more"
"no comment"
"they to the point i want to know more about whats going on with our country and running it"
"had a lot more time to sit and think . not pro - legalization , and more conservative in my on crime than ever . i believe there are men here that need more time ."
"prior to incarceration i had no political opinion . now i have a strong desire to , not reform , but scrap the entire system of incarceration for punishment that worse than when they went in , and replace it with an intense period of training to correct the in habit and behavior , if that is possible , which may not happen in all . i have been for over thirty on a non - murder case , and have only been to join in therapeutic during the last two prior to seeing a parole board . this is the department of policy , and they are given free reign to create their own plan of action where the are concerned . so for these and many more , i will certainly be more politically active , if ever ."
"i have been for thirty - five ( 35 ) consecutive and that is a lot of time to learn & change my understanding from a to middle - aged adult ."
no
"those in do not care"
"i want to . keep up with and knowing my . we never study this until we get locked . up"
"i ' been able to gain more knowledge about politics and the illusion that the of the off this country count . don ' t mean anything ."
"i consider myself a gun libertarian . the only that have for me after my incarceration are those on the criminal justice system ."
"i dont think my opinion count ."
"yes cause i feel non violent or drug get too a sentence"
"i am more for"
"one word trump"
"i never thought about voting before because i really ' t care about politics and i ' t think it affected me at all . now i see that it me more than i thought ."
no
"i see much differently now ."
"i really dont know ."
"everything . i incarceration at 20yo . i ' be 25 upon release ."
no
"i came into the system at young age . i am now 43 old . my have with the passing of ."
"i don ' t know"
"yes i am much more informed and i pay more attention , we need to get our youth and educated and in the political"
""""" criminal justice reform """",,,!!!!! this is a political sickness"
"i dont think anyone"
"i wasnt to as much politics , or it may just be the trump era out the political side in the general population ."
"health care needs to be at . we can not kill unborn . we need to look in to teaching about incarceration . let weed be no crime , let it save the united . it would let some men be free to be with their ."
"my because i use to not even care about politics but now i pay attention because depending who is in office a big effect on the nation as a whole"
"i used to be pro death penalty . now i am not . also , i have educated myself and to read and watch / listen to news quite frequently ."
"before being i did not believe one person ' s vote , so , i did not concern myself with politics . since being i have learned that it is my duty as a citizen to be informed and participate in our democracy ."
"before my incarceration i really never attention to politics . i was a . i have now grown up in the prison . i read more . i study more . i have a greater understanding of the effects politics have on my life ."
"i see that the in prison violence , , unfair , long parole violation , are not taken serious by and other .. i alone deal with the above and ignorance of extremely dangerous and life being and for them"
"no not really"
no
"i believe that even though president trump of different then what i believe in ,,, i do believe that he done more for black people then ever did ...."
"my vote too"
"i used to believe were the ideal system , now i don ' t . i think government is too involved in and are the individual ' s right and too much ."
"i know more i to care more"
"i have the realization that my every inclination is reflected or refined by the very world , government , or domain i choose to live in with or by , as a result of the voter according to my amongst the u . s . a ."
no
"i follow the political stuff more often"
"seen how the . treat the system when dont go their way ."
"i have become more open minded"
no
"voting for a better"
"i have more insight and information with more time for self"
none
"the state only worry about federal finding . for example . in they have built a new prison . it ' s two man in a 6 by ten cell with one storage locker for two ."
"well i never any attention to politics before my incarceration ."
"the word republic ...... i cant see .. . are going too change any time soon the active part too improve too make a positive on the united . for the people ."
"i know more"
"i never to vote at all until i that while my vote in presidential really ' t matter because of the electorial college system , but it in the state and local ; so i am to vote for state and local ."
"i prefer not to ."
"prior to incarceration i had no political now i pretty strongly believe that the people really do not have that much to say about what really in government we are by the through fear of the worse happening if . we do not agree"
"i see that most people don ' t know anything about the needs of people and only listen or care to give there voice when something bad happen ."
"i have seen the   business   of the correctional system and the commodity of human from the inside and the of how myself and saw or see it in the outside world ."
"before incarceration i favored long term for all across the board . now i support such ."
"more aware"
"i pay more attention now to what is going on in my community and in our country the ."
"i guess i care about it more in here"
"i use to think i would be a democrat but i find myself agreeing with instead and it like the republican do more to actually help ."
no
"before i was i was apathetic towards the needs of and my own needs . that fortunately and become aware of the history of the facing the people today"
"when i was younger as in teenage i use to gay bash , race bash a little , filled with arrogance on free will to an extreme on of . as i got older and wiser i sit back and all that hate that is being through those arrogant and it me . so now i believe to an extent that one should be able to do as he / she please within reason ( dont break , dont bully , help if you can , get to know the problem before are voiced . simply dont hate .) so now for gay marriage , which was one of the biggest i was strongly about when i was younger ."
"have formed the republic ( ) nation by way of making to best their own political agenda"
"i am against the state and federal god like control over and society by their censorship of art , and their control over what people and on parole / probation read , watch , eat , educate themselves with , draw , create , write , and more .... we can only look at , learn , hear , decide , eat what they let us cause they know what we ' re thinking and what is in our hearts and most of all they know what is good for us and society ."
"they have not"
"what done for the criminal . minded accept keep people mentally ? d . o . c does not stand for department of , it stand for of corruption . there ' t any reform or rehabilitation for . we are locked away and then forgotten ."
"well it me understand that it to be a ladder for change such as the senate of the state along with the state reps have to come to a agreement on a common issue such as prison reform to get it to the governor to act '' everything is a process"
"i used to believe in our justice system , thinking it was fine . until i was with a rape that at my house when i ' t there . i was with two other people at the time i got the phone call to come home . i sat in county jail for seventeen simply because my ex - wife said i had the crime . my court ' t do anything he said he was going to do and even to keep evidence proving my innocence out of sight of the court . even my two i was with that day . during my the d . a . even admitted to the judge """" that there were of with the testimony , the evidence and the whole investigation . that there was too many she ' t want to disclose at the moment with me being in the room ."""" yet i was to 186 in prison for a crime i ' t have . so now i see just how flawed and corrupt our justice system is ."
not
"more informed and can give better"
"how the public is about prison . reform , and my growing understanding . of how poverty in so . many ways"
"my have because we the have no voice to be due to offender status ."
"i have had no with politics until being but over time my have i spend in solitary confinement and people in politics pushing for reform help me want to be a better person and help other men see how i ' lived and want to change to better their too also seeing how politics affect the staff is very important good people in office help staff to know and care that we some day may be their . i my self have seen first hand what good do to change or modify our behavior . me think and i ' m less willing to harm people ."
ken
"i have learned that the republican party mass incarceration to support the private prison industry , plus the in the united is punishment with no pathway to ."
"to fairness"
"yes . they have because of ' t seem to sway me either which away although there always been i agree and also disagree with now some of those not so much"
"becoming more familiar with multiple and even as seen in just regional within our country in every way a worry you would otherwise have to the forefront . these give you a understanding to the human condition and this understanding cannot help but to influence your political self"
"the impeachment on president trump ."
no
"we d_ù ÷ ä_ù ÷"
"i have been a die hard republican all my life . i will never be partisan again . all are to stiff necked and close minded ."
"the and the don ' t care about the little man ."
"we have more time in prison to think and view life in here so you are more open to in prison ."
"i have seen the need for justice reform first hand . there are in here with very long that don ' t seem to fit the crime while get out only to come back time and time and time again . some are only gone for a month before i see them back in here ... either on a parole violation or a new case . obviously we are not doing something right ."
"i used to be very anti authority . now not . being around the bottom of society for so long made me see there is good in most of us and that some simply do not care . prison is for some but mass incarceration is not the key . there needs to be a reform for were by drug addiction . here needs to be more in depth treatment and not just a voluntary n / a program . and it needs to be available to everyone seeking treatment wether they have drug related or not . i do not drug but my were most drug . its why i came back . i wasnt to take or participate in the treatment i know i simply i """" """" the wrong type of conviction . so in short there needs to be a reform ."
"yes because i believe national prison reform is indeed in major disrepair and only voting will fix it"
"because i now see how corrupt are"
"not all should hold office"
"become more conscious of how important the voice of the people is when it come to human , , and education ."
"i have as a person"
"slightly , because of education ."
"by talking to people and getting the going on with"
no
"i think i pay more attention to what is going on in politics than i did before and i ' m getting a better understanding of the justice department than i had before ."
"i was a firm democrat until recently . i ' now become independent so to speak . i just want all the corruptness , , fake , back biting to go away . its sad how one side the other side of the same corruption their doing or have done or doing . just do your job that your to do and quit pointing at someone else . stop worrying about what your counter part is doing wrong and do what your supposed to do and the united might just get done the right way and in fashion ."
"i now have the time to listen to the and see ."
"i ' always thought that are essential to our society . i believe in the punishment for breaking the . what i don ' t think is right , fair , or just , is the disparity in , or the of some who continue to do wrong to cause on everyone . there is no one concerned with how the prison are ran , and how and their are and taken advantage of by the system . we have no one concerned with the lack of and for release . we need who are up to date and willing to fix a system that is being ran by some people who are doing the same some did to get put in here ."
"i grew out of the hate of my own world and got sick of it in any way"
"i have become . more aware of political"
"before incarceration my were more liberal . now they are more conservative because of the left swing of the democratic party towards socialism . also the of the in the impeachment ."
"i tend to pay more attention to dealing with the justice system ."
"i feel more informed about politics since i have been in prison ."
no
"before i was , i only lived in the present moment of self - awareness . i did not have a clue as to what i thought , how i felt or what to do , other than survive moment to moment . now i realize that there is a whole reality beyond myself . that people are in this world , striving to survive , thrive and pass through this experience as best as they know how . i know now that """" we the people ,"""" are by our who govern through legislation . and our set the tone and pace of our through the that the create . they bring order out of chaos through the rule of law . and it is the law that is king in . law enforce the will , which is law ."
"news media and spend to much time on crime and the negative side of it for , , and political influence . they should be looking at root and how to help , and i mean real help not the kind that just good on paper . people should be being prepared to go back out into from the first day they walk through prison . locking people up and throwing away the key no matter what they have done is not the answer and we have big from this . instead of being people we have become less than human and money on the foot . there are other with this that i would be more than happy to talk to someone with ."
"yes they have , over the last three , i ' watched of news and it ' s really crazy how so many people hate on people just to be ..."
"it is mostly that there is on justice in the department"
"i not right in no vote ."
"my political have since i have been because through self - discovery into my own that lead me to prison & the recovery process , i have become very interested in the our country is faced with & to these that all of us , especially the that involve crime & punishment . many of these can be resolved in the of our . i had anger associated with a traumatic childhood & very . mant times i sought help with who turned a blind eye . my psychological & emotional lead me down the path of antisocial behavioral . i was , beaten & tormented for by abusive . i understand why people who are & hurting can be hurtful to , wanting to feel rhe pain & suffering they feel inside . this is a serious problem facing this country , not only from the innocent in our & but the social & economic facing this c"
"more interested in politics that affect especially older - i am 64 ."
"yes ! now that i understand politics , is just a conflict between two , who ' s only concern is their personal agenda ."
"yes they have or should i say that now i pay more attention , in the past i didnt really care about politics but now i know that are starting to go in a better direction with border security and mainly and to deport all gang that are here illegally , and believe me there is a whole lot of them in all over the u . s ."
"we no longer have the right of an opinion"
"i now see more with our justice system"
"it '' really '' havent ''' ' much1"
"i have watched more news since being"
no
"because i see upper class people getting lower than those without money ."
"yes i feel like i am more in between the middle of both political both talk about but both dont do anything to truly create a better society"
"i am more to pay attention to that affect incarceration now ."
"i am more with how all of society link to what in the court and , unfortunately how much general public given away to public corruption to fester and grow like a cancer . quite frankly it me and truly me appreciate more the of public who truly are trying to progress our on a positive path"
"more time to become informed of the , i been forced to not only have an opinion but to have to defend that . this one to not only become more in it from an opinion stand point but , also from an impactual stand point . change when you have seen both sides of an issue as well as become informed by people on the other side of the ."
"are over crowded its nonsense dont get better good time"
"the dont listen to the . people are and the state dont care . just as long as they get ."
"yes because there is of that are un fair"
"yes because of the injustice i see in a very corrupt system ! just like me being here on a manifest of injustice !!!"
"i am more on the side now"
"we need to let some go and work together and fight for , find common ground and the that we have in and not the that make us . respect !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"my political are no longer selfish . its not about my & needs but more for the needs of and in this my own will be meet ."
"there are i would change about how are handled in society ."
"yes . we dont have the right to vote ."
"if the who are put in office are against prison reform than we are directly subject to the ."
"no it not"
"i see how are and there for want to help change"
"it me pay more attention to whats going on and why '"
"in a way"
"i feel more like i want to be an rather then . or reb . do to the they seem to be reaching for and the blindness they willingly take on in to some . as well as the lack of truth that most """" party """" seem to be infected with . i . e . swinging from one opinion to the in a day or less in some ."
"not to have something from this would be sad ."
"i never attention to politics or understood them until coming to prison ."
"we need a better justice system and people who care"
"becoming aware of politics now ."
"because the system is"
"before i wasnt with politics and didnt how much it can affect my life"
"no comment"
"i see more more how our country needs to work on prison reform . there are so many people locked up in that simply do not belong here , and ... if they certain funds to prison reform , to help prevent people from coming to prison in the first place , and / or to keep people out of , country would probably save millions of -- if not ."
"my view on politics now are more strong to 3 ago before i got"
"yes cause as being made me see a need for change in the justice system . for reform in the and education for minority to realize that voting a difference and we need more political of ."
"i see all as a way for small ."
"i see more positive in politics then i did before ."
"i have / learned more . concerning surrounding . with more . you can reach a better understanding ."
"well since being i have no in the and the resun i say this is a lot of us on here say a and no what so ever and i dont that be a to"
"yeah i used to not even care about politics or really what was going on in the country"
"ye they have not all people are the but most are"
"pay attention more to the . news"
"suck dick"
"oh ya you find out who your are ....."
"i mean all the way around .. just a much better man thats all .. i have to take of of .. just time . to man up"
"the that affect people me more"
"i think . politics really help those who are the only hurt ... no or real reform or to help people back into society"
"yes , are swept under the rug . they also have to deal with unfair ."
"i ' m leaving this country like a sailor leaves a sinking ship ."
"you see more of what is wrong with the legal system , and what politics have to do with a lot of the our government make in behalf of across the country"
"it is where the system where the system is two - faced where is the real true justice in this state / world ?"
"since i have been through the justice system and seen the myself and people like me like trash because of the system and that we are nit seen as human ."
"i have become more ."
"i just think opinion"
"i hate my country now"
"i am now way more concerned with and justice reform ."
"more aware"
"good time percentage is at an all time low if we raised the good rime then . i . feel there wouldnt be as many violence . with the rate as it is in right now if u mess up it matter u dont lose much time as opposed if u would if . the . percentage . ere . higher ...''"
"watched more of the news since , therefor seen more of how trump is always on the news for some dumb reason"
"prison reform ."
"i have always been a republican but , i am here in and got 40 for a tiny bit of . also i got a 6 month sentence for a misdemeanor lewd and behavior ( i was doing something to myself outside i was very high ) the time ran concurrent and i got probation . however i got my act got off got a job with the county ( public works ) got a house . then now due to to register as a sex offender for 15 i lost my job due to public opinion ( face book ) once they found out then lost my house my probation officer sent me to prison for not employment .. then now i cant have a job on a outside work crew or go to work release because of being a sex offender . now i ' m of my crime and i do have an extensive criminal history that is around substance abuse but , this sex offender thing is unbelievable ! i ' m so ashamed and . me ! i know that get to go to work release that have murder ! i"
"dont know at this time"
"we have no"
"have become more interested"
yes
"i am more apt to vote for the republican party or the . independent party than all other as these two are more apt to do what the say they will do for the public !"
"i am more to the . it me understand how important it is the vote when your voice is taken because of a mistake that led to incarceration . lastly when become the you understand why """" the government """" doesnt want you to vote . to negate the of those they feel are less than and delinquent as if we still arent people . in that it me more vigorous in wanting pur on but especially the corrupt judicial system ."
yes
"every body frim any race they just want to team up to survive or they need kind of support to make it but i dont"
"well . more aware of going on"
"i know more about politics ."
yes
"i am . more . educated and mature . i had to do my own personal research into my and i have a better understanding on ."
"i never really thought about politics until trump president"
"never thought political"
"nope ......."
"the state so much per prisoner its all about money . our !!!!!!"
"going back 2 ; i have never been to vote but in one general election and at that one occasion because of my criminal history it too hard to even register that i my chance . going back 1 question ; when one is on the system for every little thing , from food and clothes to health and even basic entertainment you are an insight that can not be in the outside world ."
"me want to vote"
"i didnt care before but now i want to help turn our country around"
"really my but the i here that is trying to be is not"
"more aware of politics now ."
"you try going to prison"
yes
"i never really attention to politics until trump got"
"learning more about it it here . but i pay attention to who to really help the and the . also a democrat and i realize some do want to help the poor they just have a different approach ."
"one sided inexperienced"
"i ' been since 2009 and ever since was was when i to show an interest in politics . ever since trump been to office and the impeachment my have drastically ."
"i understand the thinking of , and the animosity by non whites for white people much better than i used to . even though i disagree with some of it ."
"i never really about politics while i was a free man , but being in prison my to the of the world . the world does not really care about those they put in prison , if the say we are guilty , then the must be right , then we are and as such . so , when we try to do the right way , the world us like we are scum of the earth . politics , is just another word for greed . the government do not care about u . s . a . they only care about the money going to their and looking like they are the world . they talk about being a strong country , yet the of that is fake . we have more then , and we waste military on petty that have nothing to do with us , still , i would fight for my family , if ever given the chance . there are so many who love to get back to their , and if fighting in the army does that , why not send us there instead , like they us too . it ' s not like they give a"
no
"from this position , of 29 of incarceration , i am able to view the world objectively ."
"i use to lean more towards the democratic party because they were more liberal and lenient on crime ."
"i dont know"
"22 old and an uneducated street , i didnt even have """" political """" until i came to prison . so i say yes because i actually have political now . president trump is not racist and he ' s not a politician . yes , he political and he is apart of a political party but he ' t working for the republican party , he ' s working for . anything or anyone who is not for and its people , he is not for you and i agree . that is why i ' m not my street career when i get out , i am for and being in the streets does not help us prosper . college is where i ' be in 7 to become a social worker . even though my vote ' t matter , trump for president # 2021 _ùõø"
"i have been able to study further into political ."
"they have gor the better towards"
"i see because my are older now"
"in here i have more time to stay abreast of current and to learn and understand about than i did in the free world . hence my and have based upon my greater understanding and of what the really about ."
"of my"
"number one"
"i am . i believe us should stop killing each other and unite and take our land back from the united . if we can , take down this crooked greedy government , and destroy these . thats just a dream of mine though . never happen ."
"yes , we need to have people in office who can make the system to help us out and not keep us ."
"because i see the truth !!!!! i ' grew up in since i was 12 now 38 . i used to not care about politic ' s because i never knew or understood there meaning or , as i know is the same for many here now and to the one ' s the system is at young now . they will only know this cause people come here and are forgotten . until they come to a point of with time and see people do care people want to help ! that we matter and our matter to society that its the people we elect to power that are for what ever not doing or are not being to make people want . and some people are not fully of of incarceration and vote on half like oh let ' s be nice to people who broke the law . truth is we our but also want help to be better people and help society become and better for all people ."
"i 100 % see a immediate need to reform the criminal justice system in its entire ."
"once , i was a child and was a fan of the . then i came to prison and learned about the damage they did to the poor and ' s ability to access the while the public was blinded by the trial ."
"yes . people never see until you come to prison . there are some need ."
"i was 18 when i came to prison and had no interest in anything but myself and stupidity . now that i have lived in prison , i see that the public really is not aware of . ignorance in the case of a prisoner is bliss ."
"because all over the world , only do for and upper class they talk about what they are doing for the lower and poor people but it dont happen or you have to go threw hell to make it when its made easier for upper class and other that dont live and work in urban ."
"been since i was 19 21 now , before this i had just registered to vote and got my card the same week i was . never really been interested in politics but being in here made me realize that the the government decide on actually effect us and we as the people are the who have the power to decide what goes on whether its state or federal . i havent really had a chance to look too far into politics because of limited but if given the opportunity i would involve myself ."
"on like the intensity of drug"
"since being locked up i have to fear my and lost of in politics ."
yes
"more concerned with the state of our and worried that no matter who is in office , they ' re going to screw us over on some level to achieve there own agenda"
"i pay attention to politics now whereas before i didnt care"
"thank - you .. yes . my political are ever - as my knowledge and wisdom increase wether i am or not . incarceration made me feel , and think to be more politically active ( for that my voice and so many like me might ' been '' '') . i think ' my ' generation really '' the ball '' on taking part in government , and so and have been made ... skewed ."
"yes they . have . a . lot"
"just more interested whats happening and whats going to happen more than ever because of being ."
"i didnt have of faith in but finally with trump he is actually standing on everything he said that he would do and i like that he is un afraid to not only speak up about that are working in this country but also take the initiative to do something about it"
"it because i feel like arent right and if i had the right to vote maybe i could help change"
"dont know"
"i hate who ever comes up with up"
"prison shown me the extreme need for prison reform , and the only way to accomplish change is to be informed ."
"i believe people have actually st hand the penal . living on the streets actually what its like to go through"
"i used to hate politics and equally . now , because of the flagrant hypocrisy of the , i have come to hate them more . they preach tolerance but at the same time aggressively attack those who represent contrary to their own . they are also sending very bad mixed to . telling them bullying people is wrong but relentlessly the president and sometimes his family ."
"after seeing how their own . e is always a cover up they investigate state how we fired them all when the heat is on but once down come back after leave some even come back to make up for their time off . they just did that here in and and ."
"cause of it me"
"are waisted on with no rehabilitation . people do time not much else"
"real have to be dealt with"
"in the end , and all the world will be no more . but i still want to vote ! _ù ÷"
"i want to know what ' s going on politically ."
"i have become more conservative"
"politics more closely"
"its made me more aware of or new made by the judicial branch but also take a good look at how and what are most important to me as an citizen and whats wrong in society as a whole but also what i need to do to make a change to change my environment around me"
"its a hard question but i would say yes just because trump done in the past couple that taught us . like with the unemployment rate . it will take more international effort to keep improving our unemployment rate ."
"yes i see the injustice go threw and i feel no one is doing nothing about it . thats the reason why a big follower of wright and his team . he the prison legal news newspaper which i get"
no
"well everyone and there mind from time to time"
"we should be a part of our future as in the right to vote"
on
"well seen the bad side of life , what poverty . and does to a child and how one up to be and how are doesnt really help that much ... trying to go to a half way house so i can have a drug free home i cant even get no help"
"more interested"
"older so my are"
"trusting any thing that is said"
"had time to actually pay attention and know every vote a difference"
"i have seen people for they ' t be in prison for . i believe needs to reform"
"prior to incarceration i was not interested in political agenda . i now realize that politics impact life for better or for worse ."
money
"i see more racial and get lowly than other race"
"more in to it"
"the people pay there bill so work for the people and that is it ."
"never really been into politics until i came to prison"
"i see that are actually than i thought they were"
"i feel like because we ' re in prison we don ' t matter"
"the system is a business , that private interest and to acknowledge the real that lie under the surface . the and their fail to actually help or us correctly . the """" post release """" is a violation ( 5th amend ) used to the felon who never a chance to challenge the parole contract ."
"i watch whats happening in the world since been here"
"i want to know what ' s going on in politics ."
"the in - fighting between"
"my time under the aegis of the criminal justice system certain that have been often in political since i was old enough to be interested in politics . there ' s nothing like first hand experience to make you understand a certain view point or clarify a for the they do . the united criminal justice system is in turmoil . too many people are being for harmless . such as drug related . need help not incarceration . jail and prison are just a time stop . they hardly ever deter recurrent drug use or the that are associated with it . our prison system is overflowing with non - violent drug whose time in prison actually to make them worse . exposure to the oft times violent world of most them more likely to become violent themselves as well as them with new to further their drug use and related . it ' s a brutal cycle and a horrible tra"
"i tend to see whats really going on in the world more now than ever"
good
"i have lost my right to vote and have mixed about that right back ."
"i out of being politically minded once my life going to . it a waste of time , stress and energy"
"i have seen of unfair crap in our justice system"
"because what say dont count thats the way people on the out side of prison want it for not to have a saying on anything on voting or anything that goes on on the outside world"
"my view of the world . i now know what its like to be on this side ."
"i can ' t vote , it ' t pertain to a right i don ' t have ."
"nope . _ù ÷"
"i value it more now than before ."
"we need not be so with our drug"
"i am in a state that does not allow any vote if , on probation , or on parole / post - release ."
"i grew up democrat now i lean more toward republican"
"i see my life in a whole new perspective"
"never how up the justice system was"
"i feel that a grid chart that is way to extensive . i feel punishment should be on a case by case bias , and our . should cut the population down for the few who are not """" trouble ,"""" but simply made a mistake ."
"no comment"
"yes to manny child in"
"its make me realize the are just that ...."
"it doesnt matter ."
"i cant at this time"
"of the charge i was given ."
"i was born again my entire life view and what i consider good and evil have . the entire political interest of half a nation now basically and"
"i think that we should on"
"they have because i have a view of wanting someone who respect and common for themselves and rather . money power or fear"
"these petty that got most woman in this prison should not even be here . it is a money racket and so very political , sickening . what is wrong with this state of which i used to be to claim as my home state that which i was born and raised in . not ."
"i now understand how important each person are"
"well before . i wasnt . into politics . now very interested ."
nothing
yes
"i see people with against other people getting less an less time when drug get more an no i ' m not saying that one crime is worse than another but maybe they should be the same"
". sick of , crying about trump this and that"
"drug reform"
"and change your"
"i just dont care"
"i have been most of my life , so of corse in that time my politics have . but the of suffering and i have went through for some one els ' s profit . wile at the same time me and all under the facade of my and made me thirst for change . my mother been to prison . me my father and daughter are all in prison . this system whole , and . and almost no positive ."
"i was only seventeen when i came to prison so i never had a political standing until coming in . now i am more involved with politics and what to the country because it me up to date on the outside world"
"i need more help now that a felon"
"i see how work ."
"i dont believe there is any hope for our government , revolution is the answer ."
"i pay more attention"
"i try not to let my ' pave my road . i try to remain humble and true , treating everyone ."
"doing this essay made me realize i don ' t really know much about politics . it me want to really start looking into it more once in april9"
"i believe that the are over and need something done about these with . you get more time for doing then you get for murdering someone ."
"um ....."
"yes in state if have lost our rehabilitation side . they have become a warehouse of and the staff who are to do with no ."
"since being i have learned to except truth for truth like we so often blame the government and other political but we have and we have and we have constitution and and so forth its our to learn these so to me people are ignorant by choice not by force but i wish not to illuminate nor warn but to self educate"
"open minded more ' i still am a bit although ."
"i took a nonchalant stance on politics , but reading the news everyday given me a chance to look at where the country is headed and the being made for this country ."
"i have become a racist"
"yes my have become more aware in detail regarding politics ."
"i used to not be politically persuaded or interested either way . since being i have to and world service and have my political ."
always
"as a young man coming into the system i had no concern about the politics that the do ' s and don ' of my life . since coming to prison i taking notice of the economical statistics and worldly of my fellow people"
"because we need to be too"
"i ' m interested in the of person on incarceration"
"i dont look at the the same"
"before incarceration my moral compass was out of and my conscience was seared and , but now more conscience of and morality from the"
"in prison is non are verbally and abusive and nobody because we are in prison"
"i used to not pay attention to politics at all , then watching and learning what all trump was doing ."
"i see view more"
"incarceration let me see and experience at a level what our money is going for . oh , and by the way you cannot vote for the presidency once you have a a felony . so no answer can b at to the question prior to this last essay question ."
"don ' t believe i matter ."
"no change"
no
"they all think were the scum of the earth"
". u . b g . d . f"
"i use to think it matter now i know it dont"
"its difficult to explain"
"that ' s for me to know and for you to go jump . in a lake full of ."
"i see point of view a little better"
"there is no one trying to help us . i to go to school and college i want to make money i want to be be set up when i get out but thats not always an option . i want to change my life and be apart of the but they make this almost impossible as if we are lost"
"no peace"
"its kind of hard for me to explain my decision , because not sure"
"see how bad the penal are"
"become more aware of politics since becoming"
"for are totally up"
"n / a"
"every one should be able to vote if your in jail or prison"
"of could help ."
"the of trump !"
"they have"
"watching trump get"
"by a voice"
"its all a scam it dont matter if i vote or not trump his way even know more its all a scam"
"society me and i am . i could not afford proper representation ."
"' s need by all"
"i feel that i need to take a better grasp of the at hand for our country , and how i may play a role in making it better"
"yes . of course they have . i that they have slightly , because i highly believe that no or even about the . whenever something comes over their desk concerning the . it is quickly handled by to keep us as long as possible . it is all about money for them no matter how you look at it . you take me for an example . my biggest problem with being where i am today . is the fact that no one attention to the surrounding my case . first of all , again i am an minister , visiting a house to speak with them about given up and working for them there house . well there door got in while i was there . not my house , not my property not my . i was not on the rent or lease agreement . nor was i a residence there but i was still for they found there . then after going to jail and my sentence . how do you think i felt when a guy who ' t"
"yes i think inmate are important"
"since gotten older different"
"it ' s made me want to get into politics ."
"before i was i had no motivation to even participate in politics . but now i try to listen to as much political news as possible because there are that can change the department of for then better . met of people in the past 2 . people who have lost their whole because of prison and people who have their live because of prison . and when i ask them what made them want to change their their answer was simple . """" the prison system me that i didnt have on the streets ''. there are many that the can do to make the department of more on helping to change their for the better such as more job , classes , and a better reward system"
"i now see about our and we have to live by"
"pay closer attention to news"
"i should have more"
no
"more understanding"
"they are trying to change"
"they need fix in"
"our need"
"yes i see that trump is a very bad man"
"it i see the world different this place u tine 2 think"
"you see of stuff happen within these"
"does not bother me"
no
"since being my whole adult life for being a petty drug offender with no besides made me bitter towards politics in general and led me to have little faith in myself or my country in general ."
"watching trump be"
"i think more leniency for themselves in a domestic violence situation who are only themselves after of being in such a relationship and believing the abuser instead of the . i also think when drug are and"
"you dont see what behind until your"
"i want to be more involved even tho i cant because a felon"
"because people are often and for that they have done to survive in poverty stricken . although if the of and the of breaking them were taught at school along with history , math , and science then maybe people would know better to break the law . if i would of known my life would be this hard and my job skill level would be this poor as well as my work history portfolio i would of never gotten in trouble ! then because of my criminal history it it difficult for people to take you seriously . i have been many and have mentally and emotionally due to the fact of being a felon . i have been , and even housing . i feel that locking people is not always the answer to serving debt to society . there are , , and as well as who have the same and life for them been near as hard because of their social status and the fact that they have money . i feel p"
"i am a 10 year army veteran who once the legislation pretty strongly i now see a severe injustice not to but to social classes and people who werent handed the that most people who write legislation have been handed . there are people affecting the of and by writing and passing these and , when in reality they could never understand how or why they are condemning good people to a life of hell all because they will never understand a struggle themselves . its one thing to fight for a particular job or social status . its another thing to fight for food , shelter , or sometimes your life . direct commission to legislation shouldnt be , you should only be able to affect know ."
"i think we should have a right to vote even though we are just like we have a freedom of speech ."
"i think more about it"
"their are of people that are for and different of their i think the should look at everything from the major of the crime the severity of their crime and the of the and the past of the people along with the present of their some one and treating them in a way or matter"
"it would give more perceptive to"
"i will vote when i get out"
"no i cant explain"
"i am now against what the government does"
all
"nasty . with"
"cause there ' s of that people dont do for the one ' s that ' s locked up and they could ' done that a long time ago"
"it how our become they do what ever it to get what they want so what good does it do its like 11 in we against it time and time again then we had a vote to save the spotted owl we to save an and doing in 11 didnt read the fine print by voting to save an animal we also in 11 what good does it do against like that they are going to do what they want anyway why vote we need to the slate back to the and start over if you ask me"
no
"upset about not being able to get the help i really need and want ."
"i all , law enforcement , should have to spend a sanction in jail before being aloud to decide how to enforce law ."
"that a end needs to come to corruption in the system"
"i ' gotten older and follow it a little more younger people don ' t are as much"
"because i want my country to get a right president"
"i have learned more about politics"
"yes . when i was not i was less interested in politics , i little attention . since i ' been i watch and read the news more often so i know more about politics ."
"i have had more time to study are political office"
"u dont get the right . to study my"
"i feel if i could vote , i would have more of a impact on the way certain and government would"
"because i now know more"
"see housing effects people"
"i have become more interested in the political of the world"
"i have a effect on my community"
"i realize its for nothing but money to stuff"
"more aware of the politics"
"yes because i feel like it doesnt help its all about profit and plus its so it example even if a republican is wrong just cause u a republican they dont vote against it same for democrat what happen to if your wrong your wrong i dont care what side on its a load of crap"
"i see for what they are now"
"i want to fight for justice reform"
"its a joke"
no
"it i picked the answer"
"that the and are and they do what they do for profit"
no
"[ yes ] i did not vote before my arrest & incarceration 38 ago . education to shape my political ."
"[ yes ] i ' definitely become more versed in politics and constitutional / criminal / civil law while . my social consciousness me to be more attentive to our government and public ."
"it with the times ."
"being my outlook on like criminal justice reform , marijuana , minimum wage , . i have seen and a better understanding on how in these affect lower income people and ."
"i see differently now from being , how we are and ho"
"been since age 12 and i had no political view at that point ."
"by not being able to vote because am a felon"
"i have learned to hate all equally ."
"because i have had more time to watch and learn new ways about our country being sober ."
"i more strongly support the republican party ."
true
"yes because its the first time head my head clean and had more time to follow ."
"i never really had a political view till i came to prison an now i have to pay more to it"
"even though i am serving a sentence for a crime and doing what is of me i will still be considered a felon when i get out of prison . i will be a pariah to the public and have my stripped away from me even though i will have been in the ."
"i belive now that our judicial system needs to be seriously at"
no
"its because of good people are going away for a very long time . that should be able to earn there way home ."
"how money is used fund re - from prison ."
"over the last 13 , my incarceration been a monastic experience . through my , i have come to see how we are turned into by capitalism . i have also come to see how an individualistic culture like can justify the suffering of by blaming hunger and poverty on some character flaw or biological , instead of social , political , and economic that have the that trap people in poverty . because of these , i have become more politically engaged , and my view of politics have taken on a more radical , revolutionary form ."
"the sex offender need to be"
"i have that for sex are and the should be to fit the"
"i want to elect people that can understand the and of people . i want them to be on job criteria , or for those who are disabled and can still be a productive member of society or make positive to the community ."
"yes and no they are making time harder to do"
"i am a and i deal with prison politics all day long so i go by what i belive i put trump in office and id do it again in a heart beat he is what we need leave the man to do his job and stop trying to bring him down over fictional"
"since being i have an education and have found an intereat in humanity . i feel now i am more progressive and now i am in human ."
"news show care more about mass incarceration ."
"as a prisoner i see change all the time . so , with this said it is important to see a person for their worth , not for what they have done . people have done since the beginning of man and people will always make so as a whole we must come together and help one another instead of hate and extensive . we must support prison reform ."
"i am more involved with the process of a say in doing the right thing for the right ."
"i used to be more of an independent but even though are less towards prison reform , i feel my and now align more with the republican party ."
"a un a la . , para la . no solo , si no el para el pueblo o naciì_n ."
"i never recognize the importance now i do"
"seen what on the other side , the reality is the system is ineffective , and too narrow a focus , which is more detrimental to the safety of society"
"in 2003 , when l got lockup for the incident that could have gone the other way . i was a low level street dealer with absolutely no education . i ' t read write and politics where very far from my mind , at that time , all l was thinking about was feeding my family & up with the . then in 2008 , a friend told me to put down my pride and ego and learn how to read and write . at that point l did set back and look at my life . life took a turn for the best . i did and realize that everything one does effects those around you . i got in law because l realize one can ' t be an citizen if one ' t know the law . if l had know what l know now about the law . i don ' t believe l would be in this situation . in one the right to bear , but u also have a duty to retreat . not many people know that we as have an obligation to society duty . the study of law then lead me to politics and the study of politics . and that how l ' grown with my political view ."
"prior to being i ' t really have any ' political .' i was born in 1958 , and most of my generation grew up with nuclear bomb because of & russia . then there was nam . even though they did away with the draft we all to go somewhere and fight for our country . my father was a marine and fought in . my grand father ( on my side ) poncho villa ( ?) around the border and into . my grand father on side and his sons all fought in . maybe in . i remember they told about mustard gas . nasty stuff that ."
"people talk about it to much ."
"yes they have because i am in prison for a non violent crime and i got 8 instead of getting help . i have mental health and prison is not a place to be . they need to give help for people that have drug . i have been sober for almost 3 now and i am very happy ."
"i am a sex offender . and the public forget i am a human being and are making impossible to back into society ."
"well i have had plenty of time to stay tuned in on what goes on in this country through watching the world news ( fox news ) and have discovered how crazy politics really is and how both seem to do thing that themselves what the people need and desire this of being been a real eye opener in more than one way and i think that everyone should embrace the vacation from the world stress of society in general ."
"all are"
"i care more ."
"think about it these made trump president of the united of"
"i now have articulable politic ."
"it would not be as much a result of my incarceration as it is the personal transformation that place therein . as i have discovered my identity here , and begun to view the world in a perspective , i was able to better serve a capacity greater than myself ."
"more open minded to both"
"yes it because i now can see how people of color get . compare to white not just in prison but outside as well"
"how certain refuse to look at the real at hand and allow them to be reformed"
"before my incarceration , i had no in politics or the in . i did not care what direction our country was moving in or the facing its . now , through a college education , i have been enlightened to the facing our country and how they will impact the on the ."
"it because of the fact that i met some really good people who have just made in life and i believe that they should have a second chance at life . so my political are that these are that need to be spoken about , ."
"more involved with politics than ever been . i can see the turmoil our country and want to keep up with the times . in order to do so been trying to incorporate a more politically driven ."
"yes because i understand a little bit now to i didnt ."
none7
"twenty ago i felt my opinion ' t matter . i was party and didnt understand amongst . since then i have learned to share with the republican party . i look at most of our legislative are with and congresswoman / men whom have over worked their retirement and we need a reform of how our and are ."
"yes because since i have locked up everything change"
"my view on """" for - profit """" government dramatically . particularly , with respect to prison health care and food service ."
"i am more to social justice and social change ."
"i ' become more conscious of the dynamics politics ."
good
"i have more to watch the news"
"it a impact on the"
"the way the country is being run"
"they have a great deal as i have taken the time to pay attention to the fear that our people have had upon them over the last fifty due to the addiction rate in our society . this taken control of our social structure ."
"more aware"
"i honestly was to right out of high school so i didnt care about politics but now starting to see how up our system is"
"its just made me realize how corrupt the system is"
"i have more consideration towards prison and human"
"it is just so negative all the bias and constant over reaction by both . it is really sad and i fear it is causing anti patriotism in our country . this is more of where are now not really due to my incarceration ."
"i was now all about them"
we
no
"i see more and more aware of whats going on"
"yes now i know some people are trying to change prison system"
rime
"because i have a hard time understanding how being in prison you less of a citizen and unable to vote like any other citizen who is not in prison . we are less of a person because we made some"
"looking for some one to care"
"seeing and hearing what i have from other me want to vote to try to get better in to stop corruption and have a fair and honest legal system ."
"my political have since my first experience with the """" justice """" system , because now my are further open to the deeply set corruption / embezzlement and the lack of from our government"
"i am less of a """" traditionalist """" and more versed in civil , criminal , and constitutional law . i ' been doing more and reading , thus , have grown more informed ."
", i have a harder view on after this election and this incarceration ."
"being gave me light and understanding to politics"
"i watch unfold more clearly in prison then i do when all busy working on the streets"
"sometimes i dont understand why are being run the way they are"
"now i care"
no
"i and my"
"i during my such as racial"
"this is a ware house of people who were told about but what is that we to self , we do it we are lied to and lost all hope in any system . i want a chance at life learned a great deal and am very sorry for my one more chance"
"i thought had most of the to me but they drop the ball on prison reform so for the ."
"i never really attention to politics and now i do ."
"i never used to care much about my until i git and was directly by the racism in the system"
"more stringent , less variable ."
"i president bill before impeachment . i president bush for his """" compassionate conservatism ,"""" i my support of present bush when he took this to war in under false . i president , however , now in some policy i support president trump ."
"the prison our"
no
"i never any to any of it . some help . was . now i see the . through the system"
"we need more people working on prison reform"
"yes i think the party is more for the people than the . i use to support the democratic party before my incarceration"
"before my i came to prison i did not follow or care for politics , but now it part of my life . i care about what politician say about that affect the nation and me ."
"no ."
"gave me time to stop and see what going on in world"
"i try not to get involved in politics or religion . in prison ."
"no comment"
"well it give me time to see the news and see it more better by talking to people"
none
"i dont agree with what they do at all"
"yes in the wrong way"
"yes i can see the sides to the have and we r as a nation"
no
"most of my family is republican . i only once before coming to prison , but when i did , i republican . after coming to prison , i taking college , and seeing the world differently , because of the combined experience . i voting democrat , even though bill , a democrat , was responsible for the 1995 crime bill , which ended the federal pell grant program for people . i guess i ' been that the would come around , see the folly in the war on , and tough on crime ."
"i hate politics"
"i have had time to look at ."
"i had no idea about the importance of politics . i that there was a sence of justice . i was wrong there is what is true and what the to be true . the is a political position and each needs to be . if we look at the rate of incarceration and the rate of crime they are out of order"
"they treat sex like when it is the least likely to reoffend to any other crime"
"they need more prison reform"
"now i would be more to vote that would . especially concerning prison reform and inmate re - entry or parole and other of release ."
"i am more on my and my ."
"i ' m more informed than ever before"
"they the r all . ."
"i used to be for capital punishment until i came to prison . some people truly can be innocent ."
no
"before i , i had no interest whatsoever in politics . i had been 18 for just over a month before i was , and subsequently to 50 in prison . before that , i was a foster child merely on to suppress the between my and me , and getting to a point in my life where i was to make significant about my own life that were not be personnel ."
"i was very conservative in my and did not take into account social justice or prison reform . now i see the need for change in these . i was oblivious to the of justice so today until they my ."
"i now understand more about the today i . dont pay on the streets"
"they dont do anything for people without money or to help rehabilitate me so why would i care president or the"
no
"i focus more on what someone for and what they are trying to do and where they get there"
"it like we are just a money sign to them"
"i never really in our since they never for me but now that i watch happening in our country with the corrupt lying breaking stealing our money wasting our for a bogus impeachment i can no longer stand by it to stop we deserve better we are better then this"
"i used to believe in this country and what it stood for however since becoming involved in the criminal justice system and seeing how crooked and corrupt it is my are starting to change dramatically . change needs to come or we are all ."
"i ' grown up my whole life as a democrat , because i was taught that work for the people . but since i ' been , the have turned off there hearing and stopped listening to the people . they have there own agenda that is now tearing this country apart , and i ' m sure they can see it , and know what the right thing to do is !!! but they have so much hate and distain for our current president """" trump '' they have gone off the deep end . if they could only realize and see that if they worked with him this country and the world would be better off for it ........"
"it made me open my to the all around corruption of the political system ."
"i have that i am a republican because they are a party more with my on government and a country as a whole . when i was younger i just to raise hell and get high and leniency for all my . this to be more along the of the democrat party . learned that for a country to run smoothly for everyone , need to be enforced , people need to get educated and work , and need to manage spending better . we need small , low , and a strong military . these are all republican and i agree with them . don ' t really have government , only civil . they dont really stand for anything ."
"it shown me the extreme need for criminal justice reform and mass incarceration"
"' t think much about our high prison rate or the talk on reform or . till i was by my state and given a life sentence for a first time offender . now being in the system and seeing other not given a second chance because of state . i strongly believe people change and should . be . given a chance at say parole or more in the prison system . but i never thought about before because i thought i would never be a inmate ."
""""" a conservative is someone who never been on the wrong side of the ' criminal justice ' system ."""" that is a quote as well as i can recall but don ' t know who said it ."
"i now know more about the prison industrial complex"
yes
"i the news more"
none
"i went from republican to independent"
"before . being i didnt even pay attention to politics but talking with and watching the . news . it . peaked . my interest"
"yes i use to be a democrat , however while in prison had the time on my to study and zero in on who does what talk a good game and make huge they never meet . in my opinion are the that get their dirty and get accomplished . have said they would do justice reform for and even said it was a priority never . the did everything they said they would do , the from the past that the did not do and still manage to work on ongoing . while all this distraction is going on w a investigation every other day . speak than and when i think of the republican party i think action when i think of i think nothing but ."
"i dont care"
"since being been paying more attention to the . news since i cant vote or voice . my . opinion in public"
"i dont give a"
"i feel like trump is a racist"
"i dont know"
"i got and actually had time to learn my political ."
have
"hate the law"
"[ no ] see i would like whoever is president to be really for the understand , but i realize that will never happen !"
"[ yes ] beforehand , i ' t have any political"
"i was a criminal chasing money . i was hedonistic , self - serving , and a master . i did not pay attention to what was going on outside my sphere . i payong attention to world around 30 ago ."
"before my arrest , i rarely ever thought about the of the formerly , especially sex . now , it ' s an important part of my political . people should be given the opportunity to move beyond their past and ' t be for the rest of their ."
"i am more aware of how the system works . until you ' been here you truly can ' t grasp the situation at hand ."
"since becoming i have made a decision to become and stay a law citizen . my relationship or being a me to take a godly stand ."
"they '"
"will ... let ' s be honest , the majority of don ' t even have and education . as for the one ' s that do ... was on , so that 97 % of us . we ' t care or understand the process . i call it being stuck on stupid from the lack of and education . but now i see life through a different , the only proper way to fight back is at the ballot box , one simple vote in the right direction that you or me to see the of the u . s . a . go ..."
"they are more informed since i have become more aware and attentive ."
"because i can now see that i was people . too harshly"
yes
"because at first i was always pro democrat even though i ' m not a democrat i just used to like what they did for the people now all they do lie right now all the other is looking at us like all we care about is power both need to stand together ... it like all the about is trump and now that it they seem like they don ' t know what to do next .."
"there is more time in prison to reflect on and you can reach more . the actual fact that i ' m little to do with the formation of my as i will never be . political have little to no impact on my time so my interest is mostly social in nature . more into politics and how they drive popular opinion . politics can shape music , , , and culture . i do have to interact with various people from multiple so , i like to keep my finger on the pulse of shifting . politics today seem to drive social change more than in past and it me why people believe what they believe . i never gave it much thought prior to incarceration which may be why my have . i still have my core in tact so , change is ' the correct word for this answer . my are expanded and more widespread now as i have more time to focus on ."
"i ' seen in a number of of incarceration how the political system the prison system as a pawn for their platform at the time of however after being put in office they forget their original platform ."
"as you grow your change with the time ."
"i was young when i got locked up so i didnt really understand the importance of voting but now i do and have my own and is more interested in voting"
"i was what i guess you ' d call """" liberal """" before coming to prison , and the older and more mature i ' become , i ' come to the that the leftist / liberal of the nurture some of the negative that i personally had that led me to a life of crime . whereas , right - wing / conservative uphold the that are innocent and wholesome , that if i had or been taught growing up , i probably ' t be doing this survey right now ."
"i would first like to address the previous question , """" being made you more or less likely to vote """", i less likely because i feel that , as a voter , there is nothing that can help your voice to truly be . as far as how my political have since incarceration , i use to go with what my family thought and what told me . whereas now i do my own due to find out what i need to know to make the best decision that my and needs as a citizen ."
"before i came yo prison i never know anything about political or care about them , but being i have had of time to learn about the different party and understand who is trying to help who"
"i didnt use to care because i really didnt understand anything about politics .. but after seeing that seen since being here , it just really made me want to be more active in voting and making my voice"
"i ' t care when i was in the streets . i ' t understand what i lost when i was in the streets now i want to be better then i was when i was in the streets i want to do all i can to help and i hope i don ' t get lost again"
"i use to think the party was for black the i party is responsible for mass incarceration for ."
"my political have since being , because since being i ' learned to think more critically , and look at a situation more objectively before i weigh in , instead of just being close - minded about an issue concerning one political or another ."
"i don ' t think about myself rather i believe in helping , that help everyone ."
"the i have seen and been . there is so much corruption when it comes to us . i want to accept the fact that there are people who want to represent our country who to help us . and we get our hope up , the lying ."
"i understand the need for that will help people to be able to fit back into their once , and we need like - minded in power to aid this ."
"i use to be to anything that our right to . bear arms but then i came to . that because i was so young and had to teach me any better that it was a gift to have that right and to have the responsibility that goes with it . now you have shooting up and and it me , so now i . agree that more to be done on that issue ."
"my political view to the point where i believe everyone should be able to vote"
"because i actually watch the news now . before i didnt know or understand what was going on ."
"certain we face today in society is because of the president and what his are ."
"you have more thinking time and of dont make sense"
"more in how the world works because of how it me ."
"it because it of we are for the """" people """" when they are really out for self and then when they see we see that they are for """" theirs """" they turn around and do one small thing for the wealthy and say """" well we did this and that for these people """" _ù ÷"
"i was on the democratic side but now i ' m all republican"
"i look at differently"
"it is not so much as they have as i now realize that the government more impact on my daily life as a prisoner . i am now more to be involved in or standing up for the of those who do not a voice ."
"yes being my concerning because i notice that dont care about right or wrong , they will actually lie for political and sacrifice their moral character which is extremely bad in my view ."
"just watching more with the news and whats going on in are country"
"i try to look at both sides"
"i pay attention to the news understand what is happening"
"before coming to prison i use to want to vote to make a difference for my country or so i thought . after coming to prison and seeing the treatment that we were being to it made realize that there is no a corrupted system that been around forever . i that if your not apart of there gang then there is no justice or freedom ."
"i should of said no to that last question . i still dont trust people in politics ."
"i would like to say that , even as a member of the + community , i was far more socially and financially conservative prior to incarceration . i now support a number of societal , especially in the of , education , and justice reform that i did not support before . i still consider myself a republican , though what one might call a ' purple elephant ', that is , a centrist - leaning conservative willing to make compromise on wherein the public good is best by a slightly less conservative approach ."
"before being the political world meant nothing to me because i felt it ' t effect my life . but the more i ' read and learned over time shown me that i was wrong ."
"more in tune with the outside world then ever cause i know ill be affected at some point my life or my incarceration"
"they have just over time due to the change of . i ' m not really into politics but there are that i do & do not like about the u . s . government . i will say anything that i do not know the to , so i will stop here ."
"well before i was sent to prison i didnt really care about any of this political stuff but now i study it have been for 2 and a half"
"i now know more"
"i use to think that democratic party had people from my community ' s best interest in hand but since being i have now like many after being seen the truth that the democratic party only to ensure that were made to collect so the history of certain have to make our of health care and until we to vote for the opposite party there was only for our vote instead of our needs and then up on those needs by doing what they were for ."
"it because it me by being locked up made me look at life in prison different . to see how we ' re in here , of our crime , is not right . need to change ."
"well , before my coming to prison i all law enforcement . as grown come to look at thing a lot differently . i choose to view through and understand where they ' re coming from ."
"i just want to to put the right people in office because it seem to me that its always about money or war or sending people back to they own and or them from the ...."
"i grew up being told in history class and school that could be to do what is best for the working class and poor , and overall for the country only to get older and and realize the corruption in both major political '"
"before my incarceration i ' t really care about politics except for voting for , but now i have a bigger view on what the political world is due to my access and constant watching of the news ."
"because i look at every voice count and every vote count"
no
"difficult to say"
"usually i could careless but now since i ' m there are some politics and new that affect sex that i ' m now in hearing about"
"being in prison me realize how all people are not just in the community , but also in a society also . its also me want to not only help but improve prison ' s and the around them . thats why i would like to run for the state ."
"they havent radically so i don ' t consider it a ."
"i feel like the mass incarceration needs to stop that we need some form of good time"
"i actually to pay more attention"
"it made me open my about"
"i didnt have any knowledge at all before i was , been locked up since i was 17 and now 37"
"yes , being locked up open my"
"while locked up you pay more attention to world"
"before i got for some reason i ' t think that what i saw on the news about politics had anything to do with me . but as i got older and learning about politics i saw that whatever was going on on capital hill or in the white house it did have something to do with me ."
"yes in perhaps not the corruption inside the system here is awful . are and killing people there is no control or is it ? there is no good time the system is overcrowded and . where are the funds going ? what need to be made are actual public knowledge of what it is like here . the public is . i understand there are for and believe there should be just punishment but when we reach our we should be parole if we have done our time and positively and are conduct free . yet due to we wait for classes then are parole when we cannot get in them not our fault . we wait 2 - 3 + for mail the list is long so i will close ."
"i don ' t know"
"because it getting worser for a person being locked up and getting no help to make them better , plus staff that are white the non - white and constantly setting them up for either being in the hole or worst a new case ."
"i am more in border control and deportation of illegal ."
"i ' m in the state of michigan . they have a law here truth of .. a person should only have to do their minimum under that law and go home . but michigan make ' s you do your minimum and see the parole board . that ' s not the right way for that law . there ' t be a parole board .!!"
"before incarceration i was closed minded , i had the mind set that political have . i was only concerned about what was going on in my community the world is much bigger than that . my opinion was that if it ' t directly affect me then i ' t care what ."
"yes because i pay more attention to the that are said and do background information on them ."
"really just becoming more and more to be aware of whats going on around me . i have a son , so i think its smart to become somewhat educated / aware of the"
"more sensitive . to the that are going politically on than i was before"
"never really into . being in prison my on life . our living are horrible n nasty . our crime they just send everyone to prison court . gun residue , self - defense , better plea , clean the need to come back . u vote n no change for the low people . i have a work n a decision that need to change"
"i never really or understood what the political world like untill i came to prison and reading and watching the news i to pay close attention"
"before coming to prison i had no political view or any of voting i didnt care one way or the other but coming to prison that i guess that whole thing about the shoe being on the other foot and whatnot ."
"i think michigan needs so . e reform on its and treatment of"
"being to of thing never thought about before , like reform ."
yes
"trump and we need good time but its like our dont matter every one .........."
"i as though no what so ever and the we do have are in the favor of those who ' s not so yeah my political view since been ."
"i use to think that the had the best interest at heart until i learned more about the political . when they and who was part of them ."
"yes ! we look at now than before"
"i was 18 when i got locked up 35 ago , so they have grown ."
"[ yes ] i never thought about the or non of the sex offender until i one . i understand why the sex offender is not , but we still need help ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] previously i simply did not understand mass incarceration or the of prison and the in our justice system . so as a young public safety officer , i used to buy into "" tough on crime "" politics ."
"before , i ' t care about politics , but i care now especially when it comes to the way our president to answer on our behalf ."
"i ' t realize how corrupt politics and the legal system was prior to being ."
no
"that anyone who been not or tried to help the . i believe there should be other that help the root of why we commit"
"no support for those who want to change just want to keep in system"
"i just watch more news while being but really feel that we can ' t vote or stand up for our ."
"age my view because better informed ."
trump
"its do to me seeing whats going on in the world"
"i think that have sides"
"i never about it or ."
"as my are open to recognize media bias , so learned to form my own of political bias"
"a lote of my because some of the are out to get you if u did wrong even your frist crime"
"i ' m very concerned with our country and who is our president"
"the people made their and now the want to take control of our"
"more time on my to watch so see more on politics"
"i never too much attention to any , or . but over the i that my and matter like everyone ."
"seeing our current president . trump being able to lie blatantly and justify his behavior is no excuse for the abuse of office as president and the oath he swore before god and man to uphold . at it ' s ."
"because of the inhumane treatment , the montana department of towards inmate who are ."
"it my political because before prison i didnt pay any attention to politics ."
"i ' learned about how corrupt the judicial system is and the overwhelming need for judicial reform , our constitution and constitutional as , and the need to find and put in office who will do what ' s best for all their and instead of the wealthy few ."
"i was for it but know i hate ===== our politics"
"i din ' know the corruption that the government to the before"
"more since i have been locked up"
"i was when i came in so i ' t really have any of my own ."
no
"dont know how to write it"
"strong conservative religious are to many classes of people ."
"i see the of the poor more"
"i think politics is all , they prey on the poor while the rich get away with minimal or no punishment for their ."
yes
"i have been a first hand witness to the pure and absolute corruption of the and justice system , and how - our country become in to police power and corruption , and how our justice system is by greed , power , religious zealousy and antiquated that have keep our system on the corrupt path , and consequentially leading our country into inevitable ruin if we do not make immediate ... we need to lose the greed and profiteering !!!"
"i was more to think more like a republican , now i am more in the middle leaning to the left ."
"i want more and you get to see both sides of everything"
"i have more time to research the . the interpretation of the constitution also driven me left . strict construction of the text is in line with and nobody a freewheeler ."
"i felt that i was a when i got locked up but the ' s are only interested in getting rid of trump ."
"i am more fed up with the crooked system . don ' t get me wrong i am guilty however the system does not work to make us better people because that would steal their . the prison system is a manifestation of a societal injustice . the prison system society less safe ."
"i have become more conservative and believe there should be more . also have learned that transparency is necessary ."
"i am now aware of the profit """" get tough on crime """" that came out of from both sides in the ' 90s , and am far more in my political ."
"i ' been more likely to not want to vote"
"payed more attention to ."
"my are now open to corruption !"
"i support who truly want to help"
"yes . they have i would like my opinion to count toward something"
"more empathy for the ."
"i have come to see how bad , we are already ."
"i look at candidate differently . i listen for more progressive ."
"it by how they treat people when they discharge their crime or get on parole ."
"how the law people who mist up in life and how they dont give a person a to get out . the way they stop you from your"
"i have how the whole system is against us . the police , the media , , , public , prison , the parole board , they all work so hard to keep people in prison and to help ensure that many who are come back ."
"more of a liberal view"
"no . i still believe this country is the best nation in the world ."
"i that the justice system needs to be the same across the board for every state because montana is very far behind considering i was on my parole for something the federal have on it being an illegal condition to give to anyone in any state"
"i just see a different side of"
"i used to have faith in our government , but now i don ' t . people in power are to overthrow the and that corruption ; and the people are it to continue . i believe that when their is no civil or legal remedy , violence is not only , it is mandatory , and i believe that president trump would have the support of the military if he all these witch in the democratic party executed for high treason and corruption . false such as these should be punishable by death ."
"there is no faith in the montana justice"
"i hat what this country done to its people and become"
"well i ' m not sure which side to agree with ."
"i believe we need a person who can and will work on equality for all not just for and"
"place your in prison , and see what they say"
"again , i ' affected and my human and civil all over to keep me in prison for life when are light of 15 to 20 for killing people . i engaged in a ' consenting ' homosexual act of oral sex with the man i was going to marry and we were put in prison ."
"i am more aware of the leftist"
"i know hate this country it is full of"
"i ' m now ."
"my understanding of the """" system """" is much more informed through now , rather than common perception . i ' seen actual mistreatment of , and the by a """" prisoner for profit """" system . it needs ."
"because prison politics are politics in a nutshell ."
"i see the importance now of tolerance ."
"cause i cannot help change my tribe to help find help for pur family ."
"because since been false ... seen of want to be president have been president , and are now president"
"the power to vote the path our country will take and will define in the future ."
"my political have in the fact i ' m becoming more aware of how the ( state , federal ) are with my situation of being locked up in the penological system and how who is in the can have a dramatic effect on the people ."
"i used to believe that justice but now i know better ."
"i really dont care for our now very and"
"over time ' e come to be moor open to opinion ' s and have to be open minded too world politics . up trump i never about politics outside of prison he mead politics fun now i know he ' s not the most friendly person in politic and at times can be a little brash and down right with what he can say but up he the president i could not have tould you the the and that being i dont think ether side about the people all lie and tell us what we want them too but he is word on most of what he but in doing so hurt a lot off people and it made the country better ... would say no ! i havent mead my mind up yet but i do want my country to be great and powerful i do know this . the war he him self with the ' s will ether brake us or make us better . for it"
"yes , i have now the and of the justice system . i see the of the political of my country , the very people who are to be heading off the brewing and not , making me as an want to do my to help my country to , yet the only issue is the prevention of weighing my opinion through the correct such as voting ."
"i ' m a vet and i was already upset over the path our country taken . now i ' m as anti as can be !!!"
"i have grown emotionally to understand the ."
"i now see the money , stress and corruption that the correction on this country ."
"because everyone people who have dune time"
"it ' s made me of my way of thinking"
"the have taken more of my away through the crime bill that . which took my appeal away . this the and the justice system to get away with to much . are not about the truth but who can debate the best ."
"my crime"
"i see the shady acting like spoiled . making people ashamed to be themselves ."
"i never thought about the impact of politics and how much they impact us trump messing with our allies and getting away with so much just because he ' s president . some are above the law but i believe congress will file criminal"
"i had no interest in politics because i was too on my own life to care ."
"i have become interested in politics and understand their impact and the power to influence that is in the of those into of political power ."
"yes it because the do not care about the population in montana and the montana supreme court do not care about innocent in prison and the case to see the wrong in the case and county do not case the case and talk to the of case he is . and he just want conviction of the case ."
"being made me more aware of what is going on and what will happen to me and my"
"need some one who ' t on all the non - sense on earth ."
"since my incarceration i want to know more about our system and history and believe that i of . the but its in need of"
"people in the us this is how this was made and people forget that all the time people in the us need to thinking on the good in people not the bad all people have good in them some more then ."
"i dont know the between and"
"i can see first hand the so in the prison system that were suppose to help but it dont help it only funds in the pocket"
"because we should be to vote and have an opinion on what goes on in our country ."
"yes because . regardless they always put want in to office , even if that does not know anything about what they are doing . the old saying goes money walk , and ."
"my of gun violence greatly . i use to really enjoy shooting but as i grew up watching all these terrible happen i myself why i should have the liberty to play with if it another human life . after all , you don ' t give someone launch just they like . i can ' t think of any reason for me to own a gun , an rifle . i ' m going hunting ? for what , a whole herd of bison ? home defense ? i ' probably bring the whole house down around me . if i ' m an rifle , i am up to no good , and i don ' t see why that wouldnt be the same for anyone else ."
"in the """" great state of montana """" we have a very corrupt state of in our criminal justice system . being only my to change the criminal justice system here at home '"
"they have all ways been the same . i ' always at a disadvantage here in this country based on my race . even working for a state college . admission office and a step father in the . navy ."
"justice is blind , all she can do is ( ching ) hear the sound of money . it ' s no longer about right n wrong . it ' s all about profit ."
"i didnt have any before"
"some believe in to the for financial gain especially here in montana"
"my and i have been personally affected by the department of whereas most who have never experienced incarceration are ignorant to the ways and in which the judicial system itself . it ' s definitely not what it the public , it ' s not about rehabilitation , it ' s about , control , experimentation , obey or else ."
"voter ' s should get involved with the process . they should be more informed and to the solution ."
"our country the highest incarceration rate in the world . i would support a criminal justice reform bill . if i were a congressman or senator , i would produce / support a bill petty drug possession in treatment with intensive supervision . first time have that system you that is attached to the steering wheel sex ( which i unfortunately am ) get no more than 5 if successfully complete treatment . then be to a locked down halfway house and let the inmate earn the right for outside with an for up to 2 depending on behavior . it around $ 100 / day - close to $ 36 , 500 / yr to incarcerate . why not take that money and provide treatment / life classes for those with addiction , like me . i believe i at child because i have a sex addiction . those with have a sense of reality that us to behave against . i will go on and on and on if chosen"
yes
"my best"
"i was 21 when i first got locked up in here , too young to really care about what was happening in our country and why , now thirteen later i am 34 and may soon be re - entering society . i would say that every thing that is happening out there will affect us all in one way or another ."
"i was never into politics , nor truly understood them . now , i ' m better educated and understand that it is very important to know about this ."
"i am more interested in in the system over all . to get us back to what the founding father had in mind as stated in the and other such the thinking and of the founding . i am more concerned with that more so then party ."
"the time to actually hear and soak in what both sides are trying , or saying what they are going to do , is pretty interesting , i myself will stay with my party as it ' s what i ' backed up all my life and will end with it ."
"that no matter what being a got a voice in this world small but a voice . i need to follow politics cause it me as well as my ."
"the value of my and moral have been raised , how i affect the community and how it can me is of the importance . my voice in prison does not matter to anyone but myself but it should not be that way . we all matter and we all need the to contribute our voice ."
"i am older ( by far ) than when i first at age 18 . i am better informed , self - educated , experienced , mature and socially aware these later . i wish i could participate in society by working , paying , and voting . alas , those of citizenship are forever lost to me ."
"i am more educated about my political now and i am more independent which that i will not vote along party . i will vote for who i think will do the best job no matter what party they belong to ."
"i sort of on yes to that one . but my story goes thusly : prior to coming to prison , my was basically '' if i want it , it ' s mine . if i don ' t like it , it . if you ' re in my way , i hate you ''. so i ' t exactly , but i had a kind of rand - outlook on . after my first year in prison , and after come to prayer , everything . so , while i ' t political prior to my relationship with , everything came to be differently after i met him . thus , what little politics inhabited my thinking also underwent a revolution in me ."
"i am much more aware of that i when i was a free man ."
"i see the government as being more negligent and self serving now ."
"yes i believe in prison reform"
"regardless if i vote they put in office who they want , i feel like hey they made history once by black president why not put in"
:^
"growing up i never thought about politics . only living ."
"since i am only as a number an not a voice important enough for a vote ."
"the thing that is that i do pay more attention to politics than i used to . my personal went from extreme liberalism to a more moderate socialist viewpoint ."
"yes . i came in at age 17 . i ' t really understand or care about of like i do now . i understand the better , like health care , border security , gun violence , food , ... before i did ' t think about it . i pay more attention now . i am 55 . i to pay more attention in my late ."
"i never really or was in politics untill i got locked up"
"i used to believe in , now i see its a evil place that is run by the real and , , and dope ."
"the is starting to recognize over of prison"
"yes my old party , for reform of the justice , i am in on drug"
"understand it and pay more attention to it now"
"i see how corrupt and unfair the system is and if . i would vote for someone who to see"
"i haven ' t about politics until being subjected to the unjust running of the montana state prison system ."
"we are stripped od all our"
yes
"i was when i was 16 so i didnt really have any political"
"been able to get a better understanding about the government"
"because we are all human"
"they have made me more prejudice against and made me not like politics as much"
"well to the point of paying to i like to see was the only thing that i care about was when was running and his was gay right to marry ."
"because of i wish i could have him out for sure . he took every thing away from in the and now four latter trying to give it back so we vote for him are you me that was four of no aid and still didnt give us all back . this is are country first be fair to us first ."
"now i dont care who or what ."
no
"i watch more"
"because i am not voting at this time , i have no opinion or much concern about right now ."
"i think trump is the best president . we have ever . had"
"i ' become more informed of the political climate and what is happening to this country as time goes by . honestly , i think that only comes from age , though , not being ."
"my before this concrete you call a cell , were misguided , adolescent , at best , but being locked in this cell for 23 - 24 a day for about 12 straight my , heart , and mind to many , thus the formulation of my political as the are today ."
"are and a waste of time"
"i that as a i am by party , s as a . and i dont have a voice so in the end they dont ..."
"i never because i am not rich or colored . but in the last few is as if some slight form of equality may be ."
"since my initial incarceration i have the law . this given me a great appreciation for the law , and now i so want to be an active , productive member of society once i am ."
"i hate the fact that the government in particularly take pride in my family there for i hate every cop , and any other involved in my family in for nothing other than sheer joy of us in ."
"i dont see no change from any one in the"
"more democratic"
"cant tell you"
"before being i was a right wing conservative now i am a moderate ."
"my desire to care in the face of the of humanity ."
"all about prison reform no when i just didnt care ."
"yes because a gang member"
"following trump my faith in the structure of the government and reform of federal he is by far the best president we have had in my lifetime"
"i have spent of time learning in prison and i have lived as a servant now i know what its like to have no say and live no better then a in a china living in camp affect every thing decide if i can have a life or to face the death penalty affect everything"
"because the country"
"being me more time to pay attention to what is going on in the world and to give it serious consideration ."
stupid
"because have become more corrupt and only look out for the rich"
"are country is not the same way it used to be"
"i have a better idea of how my tax are being . it me angry that the system is what it is"
"well i have done a lot of wrong as a criminal yes but i have to get or for my wrong , when the or do wrong they get away with it like a can not give input on parole only to over see so as the strong suite they do as they feel"
"prison reform is and always will be on the when the and other political have stock in keeping and torn apart to have monetary gain"
are
"more worried about what my family is dealing with daily"
"yes , cause there is no being made to help those no matter the type of crime . people try to change and no one hardly them a chance"
"i hate our country"
"before my incarceration , i that the system ( those who make the and control the prison system doc ) had the of justice . but now i know the are more concerned with the way they look and how it will affect their re - election and those in their party . i am not saying that they don ' t care about crime or the as long as it either them look good or is something that will help in their next election ."
"theres been no about or about money these have become to . theres of that deserve to be locked up but that dont and no one in government to be concerned"
"after so much time to pay attention to politics , as well as at not being able to believe the that seem to constantly be going on in the white house , ( and / or language never been before from a sitting president ) it ' s impossible not to pay attention . i ' been a felon since 18 so i vote but , certain are made or for people like myself so it ' s best to pay attention no matter if i can vote or not ."
"some of the people who run for president are"
"had more time to pay attention ."
"no . i am just more aware of the broken system that is a war on we the without any accountability and if your you have no true first amendment right to the press to tell your side of it and your automatically guilty upon arrest until your forgotten ... please see . ."
"watched the political all these . too many filling and ."
"i ' seen injustice"
"never been in to it untell i paying"
"its more us v . s them"
"yes i am very and ever more and hateful of the , i strongly think we need to eradicate the current and restart"
"i have more time to gather the political"
"as a prisoner i in the law where you did your crime you do the time , however , to keep locked up past their discharge is unethical and wrong ."
"well i dont think long term incarceration is the answer to our crime"
"i watch the news more so more informed and i know who i want in office"
"i like the because the would rather have people paying taking care of there family instead of wasting tax money living in prison"
"core are"
"yes . i dont believe """" we the people have a voice """" i watch the news and i see of sitting on hill and in congress their and yawning on . for off of a disposed piece of paper talking and talking about garbage policy for making six , for what ??? where is sac lunch ? how many wasted in a day are acceptable before something snaps ? yet we must have a comity for this , v a counsel for that a vacation here , and a holiday there , yet when does the federal government as a whole quite growing to support ? when do we or us or i get to stand up and say be more ! be """" for the people """" thats waste ! when do the poor quite being poor because the 30 people who the funded only see a fraction of a grant because its wasted paying for those 30 people who dont want it to end ... so they drag with no incentive to ever end anything . here is an example in ... so the correctional"
"yes cause it our do not get through to big ."
"i feel like its just a show of class and how they want to the normal population into voting for them to create a nation of their and and not the or the pursuit of happiness of their individual freedom to obtain each own dream ."
"i am more involved in whats on in the world now"
"yes , i now feel it is more important to look into what people running for office are in support of ."
re
nope
"i look out for people who support me ."
"i think the country , all the running are out of touch with all of . trump was something , outside the standard . was the wrong choice for the right , to much baggage , someone else i think may have beaten trump , and they ' re doing it again . trump will be re -"
"being locked up just a recidivism rate that goes up not down"
"i . i think my impression of our president is everything ... condescending and comes up with that never also needs to be for his of improperly his authority of to get information on"
"obviously for me , criminal justice reform or actually the lack of my vote if i could vote . but just age and knowledge have made me more ."
"yes i really didnt understand or much until i was i want to be more involved with this now when"
"i have met people who made some interesting on i see so i to look into it"
"more democrat"
"well being in a locked down facility such as the lower housing unit 1 my to the injustice of what a person can go through even when that person be me is innocent . i dont have any kind of voice in here and have been everyday . so giving a person 22 to 26 in whats the """" hole """" for anything is strait humane torcher and inhumane . this needs by our political today ."
"lost faith and in the justice system"
"for petty . full of . not dangerous people"
no
"didnt bother much with politics before but now seeing the truth of what we have come to call """" justice """" i want to support someone who to focus more on itself than just foreign and war . the people matter not control in other ."
"i believe that all only have true interest in their own personal agenda"
"i never any attention to politics before and now i am starting to follow them ."
yes
"being locked everything"
"i never use to care , i figured are the way they are and i have no say in the matter . i ' learned that this statement is false , i live in a country were the people rule and that voting is a very powerful tool that can be used to change some wrong that have been going on . the majority of the population are . ( people of color )... who what would happen , if a whole lot of poor , uneducated people to have hope for a better future and voting ."
"i dont feel the need to express this matter"
"3 and a half ago i was more . , , that . evil people their ."
"yes know . that i vote"
"i have learned that are pro - government and anti - gun . i believe in my freedom as an as well as my right to bare arms . if a party is any sort against me my freedom or against me and my right to bare arms , i will not vote or stand up for a presidential that any of these ."
"because i feel like we dont have a voice"
"yes because my are"
"i now realize how corrupt and bias the judicial system is ... plus , we ' re nothing but a commodity on the market , pork belly ' s , orange juice , oil , , ."
"i see how the break the law and you cant do anything"
good
yea
"to really sit and have time to think about what is going on in world without me because i am made me decide i have an influence on what can change"
"yes i belive we the should the right to vote"
"what ever"
"it ' s simple , the rich get , the rest of us plea ."
"before were 2nd amendment all the way ' now not so i can never own again"
"i pay more to whats going on in the world"
"being engaged at every level is more important than ever to me . not only for my own soul , but for the preservation of all that is good . freedom is not free , and the of it is not by ignorance or apathy ."
"not sure"
"become aware of a multitude of social being in society that i was unaware of before"
"yes . they are ever no matter where you are at ."
"prison reform"
"prison reform and inmate"
no
no
"i think human is a crime by the system . to"
"i pay"
"come to understand that i don ' t understand politics ."
"yes ,"
"no they havent"
"the fact of incarceration not my but rather i have learned since"
"it to me that everything is about money , and not about the people"
"now being older , i can see , more in than before ."
"i have more time to debate"
no
"the general public know"
"i hope god political were they need to be"
"i use to be a , and they have proven to be crazy ."
"incarceration me to and witness and discrimination i previously thought were a dying culture . it also connected me with information and with belief and political opinion . i think that one of few is being in a culturally diverse and sometimes antagonistic , which the potential for individual growth ."
"we need to have a to let the public know what is going on inside prison . the public know clew what ' s going on , only choose to make public which is usually ."
"well more politically informed than i was"
"racism is rising in along with drug , , people abuse for a organizational profit , are more chosen ."
"i guess i see how have trouble in this and prison doesnt work , times are and so should the of ."
no
"i have become more aware in whats going on in my country since being ."
"under standing"
"i was young and had no informed opinion ."
"i used to think the were good for the people until i a crime 27yrs ago when bill the mandatory min sentence and i ended up with 4 25 to life and i never hurt anyone"
"i have attention more to the government and political on the news and ."
"dont care . i am only a number and dollar sign"
"yes cause i . got a closer look first hand how n dirty our legal system is which right back to our"
"use my voice"
"more to the"
"they should fight for native more"
"well i thought trump might be a good was i ever wrong !"
"i am more interested now"
"yes i used to side with"
"i have grown more aware of the true realm of the prison complex . most here are for social rather then criminal . mental illness , drug addiction , and of broken , without , up , that perpetuate ..."
"life tend to have an effect on generalized . or should anyways . change is inevitable , it is our ability to adapt , more than anything else that us the dominant species on our planet ."
"before , i ... though i had no idea why and didnt really know either platform . i just knew were more for welfare and and it good . incarceration given me the experience that comes with age , watching news , and myself so i know the , the intended and unintended of those . its not so simple as ya , raise the . min wage . great . till u understand all the . a gallon of milk will cost 10 ! us little will pay for it . not big business ."
"i dont feel like it why"
"because i havent had the chance to vote or be"
"i would like to start a group that will back me up on how corrupt the system really is ... and that most taught in , no water in real life . all the tech - today , is slowly the need for in for schooling job .."
"i never attention befire ."
"lean to the left"
"becoming less ignorant to politics as i get older . they are becoming more important to me as i venture slowly out of my selfish little world that i built for my self as an . still not as knowledgeable as i ' d like to be as you could probably tell from some of my ."
"i watched the news more and found out what the up to"
"is a big deal in the us and u we are forgotten about"
"we have the wrong individual as president , ( trump )."
"learned a deal more about the system in general"
"prison is a business . only violent should see ."
"there needs to be active prison reform and"
"looking at and the the why several of us myself are up my to the failure of the government and its people looking for reform . the simple answer is lock them up . spend more taxpayer money on incarceration instead of treatment and teaching to keep the addicted and from bettering themselves , there , , and there country as a whole . this country more people than the any 3 other combined . 25 % of the world ' s people are in the """" land of the free """" _ù ÷ â_ù ÷"
"before being locked up , i had no political at all . since , i ' to both sides and have gone with a combination of common sense , and what i feel inside ."
"i want to be"
"because a fallen i cant vote"
"i dont vote"
"i feel a victim of a system that to fill instead of . been 3 times for relapsing with no new in18"
"[ yes ] authority , we ' re taught , are to be and are reliable . this myth been and to be daily ."
"i ' far more empathy and understanding of the criminal justice system , the and civil . i have also been enlightened to the bias against people subject to these especially black people ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] prior to my incarceration i really ' t care one way or the other ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] before i was i had no care of politics but now i realize how much politics directly affect me . it made me study and do research instead of being apathetic ."
"[ yes ] my work "" education ""... to being wrongfully centered around criminal justice and reintegration . the ball was -- in the name of rehabilitation , there is still too much and "" herd "" mentality ."
"[ yes ] president made me take notice ... & being optimistic for real change . i pay attention to what ' all ' say ."
"[ yes ] yes because some of the political have direction me during my of incarceration . my are now open along with my mind ."
"[ yes ] politics govern our , so it ' s very important to be involved in politics especially in the voting process . it ' s too much in - house fighting among both . which is not good for ."
"a lifelong democrat from a family of lifelong , i now see directly the of social safety . once abstract like generational poverty are now concrete for me ."
"i had no prior to incarceration ; now i believe in certain core of left & right"
"i ' become a student of history & political theory . so i ' become more sophisticated as far as my political thinking goes . i am now aware of the social contract , , & liberalism ."
"[ yes ] because i understand it now ."
"[ yes ] era , soy un"
"[ yes ] after watching and hearing trump represent this country . my only . is "" are you serious ?"""
"[ yes ] incarceration me to better appreciate the politics involved in mass incarceration . prior to incarceration i had not considered such a connection ."
"[ yes ] before my incarceration , i had no political . now , that ' s the most talk about seriously . my , i believe there ' s a lot of corruption in politics . the system was built against non - white ."
"[ yes ] i feel more strongly about voting - being i never had the chance before ! and i know our voice at the could make great !"
"[ yes ] they have gotten and i know that their are really no . you vote along your moral and situational . whats best for you and your family "" generally "" your thinking ."
"[ yes ] was a campus radical in late ' 60 ' s . more middle road with age . prison re - me ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i was with a 7th grade education and . after living in a bathroom ( cell ) for 18 , and now educated i see why they don ' t want us ( ) to effect right and change this injustice system !"
"[ yes ] i have a better understanding of political and the of to use guile and misdirection to gain ."
"[ yes ] before , i was politically ignorant & did not care . now i must have knowledge about & participate , greatly , in politics ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i originally the political engagement of as an option , but now view it as an obligation and duty ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i never attention to politics after the 2 bush . then came into office and i see the shift and to pay close attention . now with trump , i ' m more focus ."
"[ no ] i vote for those who want to bring about equal and justice for all"
"[ both ] i ' been wronged as of late with this ( r + f ) program and how much it cost $ 10 , 000 a month is to the inmate who don ' t have a address . i ' m paying now and am homeless ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i ' learned that there is no such thing as justice . only the rich are to it"
"[ yes ] i did not realize that were "" "" as , which should allow them to "" vote "" as such . this now myself ."
"[ yes ] by a better understanding of the legislative process and how those who represent the minority fall sway to the "" so """
"[ yes ] being subjected to post - release ... i my entire jail sentence . jail reform is a top priority , as well as and the equal + fair treatment of in the ( equal pay )"
"[ yes ] i used to associate myself as democrat . after reading and both major , i do not concur with the history or ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] before coming to prison i ' t have a political view . after being my were to the on us that made to pay attention to have a view ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i got older and realize there needs to be a change"
"[ yes ] although i am a democrat , i notice that are not so bad . that political view came from the conflict the state versus federal . something i did not know . i assume it was all one - together but different ."
"[ no ]"
"when i was at age 16 , i ignorantly any u . s . war ( blind patriotism ). now i would love to see war at all . life is precious . also , we need to focus more on conservation , animal , and global warm"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] the republican do for and not for everybody , theyre corrupt"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i believe there is no difference between + where i once there were . i believe they all are being by a few white men and are their agenda ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i never had a political view before . now i have a very strong political view ."
"[ no ] i will still explain , simply because it ' s like when was in office , he tried to do only what he was to do . it ' s sad that we have a hard time together and its always to be to divide "" us ."""
"[ yes ] the older i got the more i understand my community and civil business ."
"i always new and felt that no matter what i did i will be at like an outsider and a undesirable ."
"[ no ] 99 % of side with because all they hear is free free free , or more for the poor & less for the rich - they made their choice - everyone was equal , not always equal @ all times ."
"[ yes ] i am more of an independent before prison but now , complete democrat . after being directly involved in the criminal justice system i see how grossly unfair and unjust this system is . none of them follow the law but go by their personal which is not how it is supposed to be !"
na
"[ yes ] only to the extent that there needs to be a great deal of reform done . and top down . the entire criminal justice system is broken but my politics have largely unchanged center right on some center left on"
"[ yes ] i ' m learning that i might be able to make a difference for the good"
"[ yes ] yes this being my first bid i never understood the impact being on and . so my political toward the or that cause one to be have ."
"[ yes ] what i come to understand that it don ' t matter what party control because their both to when it comes to the deficit and this is the problem facing this country"
"[ yes ] i ' m ' right ' all the way now . and i , believe our country should come first !"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i am pretty good at reading between the . the of the don ' t add up ."
"[ yes ] system is broken , but i figure it out along with cycle this time , along with moral & of my life"
"[ yes ] with this being my 3rd state bid , also with the fact that i ' a great deal this time around . yet politically speaking my general interest revolve solely around my situation at hand . the entire criminal justice system as a whole ."
"[ yes ] i that most are in it for the $ not to make the best place on earth ! that cop who that man who she thought was in her house got 10 ! had a black woman / man did that they would never see the light of day ever again !"
na
"[ yes ] as i get older i understand now its us the people who can make a change for to come ,"
"[ no ]"
na
"[ yes ] i like a lot of support , but they must have merit . , seem to me , to be more for working hard and becoming successful ."
"[ yes ] i haven ' t been swayed left but i have learned a lot more about and nancy and i ' m more disgusted with them than i ever was before"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] the 13th amendment it all ....."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i will never ever vote for a republican . i ' m much more , compassionate about the under"
"[ yes ] being incarcerate my on the of the criminal justice system and its incredibly predatory and coercive nature . it ' s also my belief in the fundamental humanity of ."
"[ no ]"
na
"[ yes ] political rhetoric and party affiliation no longer my . i view character , in reparation , benevolence and moral tone ."
"[ yes ] , i ' m 40 older ."
"[ yes ] people only care about who they know ."
"[ yes ] when i came to prison in 89 "" i ' t care about politics . now i understand the importance of choosing the right person to elect in public office ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i got to know about i did not know about before since i really did not know or care at one time ."
"[ yes ]"
"[ yes ] i feel do themselves a disservice by not embracing the by the political that have in the last forty or so . moreover , my political view concerning the right of life of the unborn certainly since my personal encounter with the lord ."
"[ yes ] i was a democrat now i am independent . politics is an illusion of service that the corruption of power ."
"prior incarceration did not have any political"
"[ yes ] i believe one vote can change a great deal ."
"[ yes ] i never attention to politics prior to entering prison . i ' t understand politics and ' t think politics were for black people ."
"as we become more informed , hopefully we evolve ; as does our ."
"[ yes ] never pay any attention to politics before being"
"[ yes ] before my incarceration i was more apt to have believe a particular politician if i like his character . however , now i am more informed and can weight my more accurately ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] when i came to prison i was blind to politics and was indifferent . now after over 25 i learned about politics and now can appreciate how important it is for black people to get involved ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] because when i was in the streets i never really watched news . but now being i ' m informed with all the terrible happening in our country and how corrupt those are ."
"[ no ]"
"i actually pay more attention to politics ."
no
"i watch the news more often and see what ' s going on in the country as before i ' t watch the news or care about it ."
"yes . realize need to know . my"
"[ yes ] and are political from , from , and local . the justice system is a money mill and political machine . + power ."
"[ yes ] i never much attention when i was free i was 16 but now i am more interested in what ' s going on in the world ."
"[ yes ] being in here , i got a chance to see from the sideline i ' m able to point out all the and no one is speaking about"
"good wood"
"i pay attention to reform more"
"because of it . like . my . worth to . some . and rather i . go to jail or not should not decide it"
"i just pay more attention"
"when i was free i was not really political but now concerned about new that affect me or criminal justice reform ."
"yes am very depressed"
"wood , wood"
"yes , i think it would change anyone view"
"i now see the of a vote in who will be in charge of making on my behalf at the state and national level . in writing and passing which become that may help or hurt my and my future ."
"i see how political change the for the better and save the money to spend on better"
"my have been to the reality of our judicial system ., there is no . ,. no understanding , create daily to justify their . the poor man no say . and the raw end of the deal . some of the in are . they completely destroy that have not hurt ."
"they r not helping the people r non violent people"
"yes i look into more"
"getting old"
"i feel like"
"i feel as though the penal system and too heavily on statistics to make informed . too many umbrella of ."
"jail and prison un motivate you"
"they choose who their going to put in office no matter what look at trump and the ."
"the state me in a privately dwelling the are privately ran and ?? over misdemeanor on ... me to be here and cold and hungry ??"
"i feel like i dont want to bother voting because i cant"
no
thanks
yes
none
"[ yes ] as a first time offender , i never involved myself in politics . i thought all of that & prison did not matter or involve me , then i was into the most pernicious machine in our lifetime ."
"[ yes ] i have become more democrat / socialist as a result of seeing republican of power and wealth - mongering ."
"[ yes ] when your , time , and when that you see thing much more clearly than before . and with all this extra time we want and need to be more involved because we have no choice , we are part of the system now ."
"[ no ]"
"the was is the"
"[ yes ] read more and not just vote for who ever family & say to vote for"
"because i want to be able to have a voice"
"not sure"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] no longer believe in death penalty or removing from"
"[ yes ] i had no idea at just how much a few wealthy are pushing their detrimental on everyone the moral fiber of this country ."
"[ yes ] become a no second chance country . we need to change that ."
"[ yes ] they say they are for but yet none are really helping us behind they dont help us after we are out & that us want to come back to prison b / c we are not getting the help we need ."
"[ no ] i ' always at the , regardless of which party . the platform they stood for and what is best for my family , the community / district / state"
"[ no ]"
"i did not how great our need for criminal justice + prison reform was . i did not know & a movement could send you to prison as a innocent man with no evidence against you because you can ' t get a fair trial that is unbiased to begin with ."
"what is how are run is not the real deal . i have seen people die for lack of medical care and die of starvation . i have seen people degraded because of lack of hygiene . violence alone rampant . some sex just to get the they need to survive in prison ."
"[ yes ] i ' become more moderate as i see extremism tearing us apart ."
"i now see the "" throw away "" attitude that some have toward and to total lack of rehabilitation available in prison"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i used to be pro - choice now i ' m pro - life . i ' m more open to after meeting several of them ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i now have political and of how i want to be . i now understand how politics affect my life"
"[ yes ] before being i can ' t necessarily say i had any political . i may not still be able to articulate my exactly , but i am more to learn more about politics and to work toward those i deem important ."
"[ yes ] because they dont care about us . they assume that since the state convict us of whatever crime we did we are against them . its nothing like that we care about whats going on out their . we have to come back home to whatever it is thats going on ."
"[ yes ] the parole system needs an overhaul . it is shameful to see such a system that for . it not only the - but it the of the , it the in ."
"[ no ]"
"are a business and the are by"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] / crime to allow pro - se work ( legal ) no one political will expose void - disciplinary ; ( at bar , - why ? biggest crime conspiracy - ever told ! ( )"
"[ no ] no i still believe in our beautiful country i just made a mistake and i learned a lot from my experience , because it cause me to listen to what going on in the world and how it affect us all as a whole prison or free ."
"[ yes ] i ' m more educated on politics and see that our government is not for our people"
"[ yes ] i was a staunch republican who to rush in the free world . after seeing how the prison system is run , however , i that don ' t see us as people . they want to lock us up and throw away the key ."
"being really to pay more attention to what is going on us i can see more clear and feel that political need to be into because it is important that we know what we are really being faced with when they make new"
"more . conservative"
"less government ."
"seen of corpus"
"i am much more towards the needs for judicial reform"
"more aware of that effect me"
"both major are more about what then in office more than what is just"
"i have much after exposure to the """" justice """" system"
"not everything is fair"
"i always wore the democrat hat . since being locked up i have come to realize my , and are republican . i am a in our constitutional first and . the preservation of our once constitution !"
"i have become more interested in prison reform . i used to be of the opinion that who broke the law just to be locked up , now , however , i distinguish more acutely between rehabilitation and punishment ."
na
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] i ' m living in this up penal system which until now they just ' t care why we ' re . now that the have the say - so , someone finally to expose the enemy !!!"
"[ yes ] being , you become more aware , you see a whole lot more ."
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] the reason i say yes is because everything is being put off because the don ' t agree with the most of the time ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] you have to live it to know it - and i live it every day - we all have a story - and need to be - it is the the time - so i have to fight for me +"
"there are a lot of that ' s just not right . we need to see some serious ."
"[ yes ] before incarceration , i ' t into politics . i felt it ' t matter because whatever it ' t going to benefit my kind of people if we did benefit it would be minimally ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"incarceration me realize the amount of racism and in and politics . it all came to a head when trump was . his presidency made me want to scream , shout , and demand more from our ."
"i am a conservative mostly , yet now i am because i have life without parole . i know the only people pushing for prison reform in are . for me , i want this yet struggle to accept all the other that come with it ."
"[ yes ] before it ' t seem like our vote don ' t count"
"while i was living in society , i ' t worried about politics because i was to caught up in myself , not concerned about what was happening in the world or around me ."
"[ yes ] i never thought of the importance my vote would have for because until i , i ' t know all the we face as ."
"i have always been to the right , so it still remains the same ."
"[ yes ] i have been for 9 and have seen people get a lot of time for small & people get no time for big . people back over & over again . something needs to change"
"[ yes ] i understand why there is and why we must follow such to govern the human body ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] in prison you become exposed to the great of our penal / justice system alike . a poor man who may be innocent may spend the rest of his life in prison because he ' t afford the proper legal representation . a guilt man with money may go free . this me to pay close attention to "" mainly "" the and their approach to prison reform . i believe the will make a change ."
"[ yes ] before i it was -- us and them . now it is "" we ."" i know that i am a good person that just made a bad decision ."
"[ yes ] i am more accountable as a human citizen , and i want to do better and help understand the big pict . also us . need to have over all love , compassion god , actual . if you know your self only you , than why is it so hard to see the you create as a president / law maker ?"
"[ yes ] now that i see first hand how they treat the mass my are different for both now ."
"[ yes ] new of president ' s learning of new ."
"[ yes ] before being locked up i never gave politics much thought . but doing time you which people care about you and which dont ."
"[ yes ] i never really because i figured my opinion ' t matter ."
"[ yes ] we the people see the truth !"
"[ yes ] who not to let into the white house"
"because i have been in this program for a while and i can tell that i have become a better man"
"[ yes ] after doing 10 in the i political and in the campaign ."
"these united ( us ) is still prejudice ."
"[ no ] i ' always and hopefully by the grace of god , i may be able to vote again ."
"as i black man in most people expect you to do one thing when you don ' t its out of the norm ."
na
"[ yes ] because you actually get to see the of what are that effect human of"
"[ no ]"
"it that no one is really out to help one another . since being , i have strived to learn about politics ."
"[ yes ] i ' had a lot of time to read a lot of about a lot of and a lot of ."
"there is some glaring and in the big business of"
"the way we are in here we are like not human it all about money dont wont you to better your self so you keep coming back"
"no answer"
"learned a lot about whats really going on"
"need criminal justice reform"
"i feel like being shut out . because of my stupid . i have made ..."
"in jail . and . all . my energy . goes on this .. fighting for . my freedom"
"before i figured out what the justice system is just a employment and people system i had respect for it now i see how its being"
"i hate how were the wrong , like people thought trump was good but nope ."
"in the free world i never took the time to care about or pay attention to what was going on in our country but now thats . i find myself sober and watching the news and informed on whats going on ."
"yes . i really believe every vote and we as a free country should really be voicing our on a ballot ."
"i used to be very republican yet i now gravitate to democracy"
trump
"my are strong towards criminal justice reform and democracy"
"i fight for now that an unjust and system . and if"
"the are a lost people , in to be hidden . prison is all you usually hear about . not once before prison did i hear about why they are overcrowded . the of living are sub par as well . nutrition is low and this is to be because of . good but the technology is so far behind the real world that those who get will be easy to relapse . more need to be in place to shorten based on performance even if it more community custody time . teach these ways to support themselves on the outside . let them earn more ways to be able to be successful on the outside ."
"yes . i that since being , my political view because i am a felon and although made a huge mistake it doesnt mean a horrible person . i am stuck in prison for twenty five and as a for murder . we now have a mass incarceration since been locked up and i am part of the problem . learned my lesson but am in here now just my lengthy release date . i am stuck doing a long term and the only who can change this issue is the government and more than always win . they are against like myself ."
"because i notice more how we are are by out side people u dont really know until ur put in the place of us"
"i never how much we persecute those who have or those who are the . how people are for what they look like or how they look on paper . i feel everyone a story and everyone can help make this world a better place of they were shown more love and acceptance ."
"prison reform to combat recidivism should be a top priority ."
"not sure"
"now i see that nobody really is on our side . everyone they are until they become , once that they forget all about us"
"yes i feel like i should be able to vote for wath i believe"
"yes it me realize about"
"a q"
everyone
no
"i am try and get my to vote back"
"i know now looking inside out what it like"
"yes i lack because i dont have the right to vote"
"need to change !"
"change when you either become an inmate yourself or affected by a family member . you discover that the media effect , , and in a very negative way ."
"i want to free .. stop all prison for profit !!"
"it help me really understand whats really going on in the world"
"i used to not have an on sex or the registration but after seeing how many are of a sex offense by their or their wife against their or their wife i think certain people should not be able to cry rape i think certain people shouldnt have to register that do for instance the guy that caught in public shouldnt have to register this is the land of the free or she is not hurting anyone but other than that no not really change"
"i am more interested now than i used to be"
yes
"we have five percent of the world ' s population and twenty five percent of its . it is very illegal to be a free ."
"yes . they have"
"seen from the inside how the system works . theres more then good ."
"it if feel like no matter how we vote it wont matter , the does as they please ."
"yes because now i have a more understanding about because i see it every day on the news and how the people me talk and how it them"
"yea dont really get"
"yes i can see the world for it is while here right minded and sober"
"yes , because i have been watching the news everyday while being and i see what a mess our country is at the moment"
"yes they have because out there i never really no to what was going out there but here i watch the news and see all the going ."
"i need to vote"
"never attention to it before . but for some reason this time being i have"
"i have been for more than 22 and have met of intelligent , strong , creative and effective people myself , many who have already been and are to the world around them even though they continue to face the and stigma of been . i believe mass incarceration is wrong . the majority of i have known would never have been in prison had they had a better education . i will advocate against mass incarceration with little or no opportunity for rehabilitation and for the men and face while society and the , when i ' m ."
"i have had the motivation and the to have time to watch and learn about the and to read and works by political , such as ' s the prince , and this given me some perspective on how the and the of the constitution differ , and how we have from the first idealistic that are form of was . i have come to the realization that special interest and the practice of career that follow blindly every view no matter the truth or to the contrary is causing a country of and blindly following that listen to half or clouded and follow with indignation to what they think they know and have no - one to lead them to stop and easily found and ( for example """" that sex are a high risk to re - offend and need to have a , sex offender registration , to help law enforcement keep"
"my far the normal , and fluctuate based upon the propaganda i experience daily ."
"being my political because i am living the complete opposite of what my life . not everyone in here is a piece of crap criminal . i think prison reform is a serious thing that needs to be into ."
"the about the nexus"
"not really"
"our government people like me to fill state and federal and treatment . they also allow on the streets and i truly our government some how these random that happen around the u . s . happen on purpose so they can enact a law and or bill that only law enforcement can possess !"
"not really"
"because i have never because i have been locked up my hole life . and since i have never i have never been to vote so the voting system i am not really to know how it works ..."
"i have grown more interested in how our works and wish to learn more"
"gritten for the girly face so she . can live comfortably .. crazy how the i done keep on me .. i dont wit , real wit me .. buckle still when i buckle it ."
"si mi es yo mi de y tube un ± o en mi es un para mi se en las . familia no yo se no ai para soy . un y me la de ala para mi ± o es solo un de pintura para y yo . ala en mi padre para ± de la para . ala ala de 5 ± os yo para ± ami la mas y para dinero para comer en la solo . y . se y leer mi . . yo . . . ± me ± o y a se leer la de un err"
"i see of suffering and disaster and petty going on in with out supposed . thats not right . we dont deserve to feel like we cant address the president by any and feel like we will be . by our race . or religion or . just personal interest period . the president is rude and wrong for . all the chaos he and we . should not have to question his loyalty to us ."
"i was never really informed on this nor felt like it affected me but now i stay more informed , have an opinion , and feel i am affected"
"i learned about different political in prison ."
"yes it because i use to give a flying . now i do ."
"by discovery good grief ."
"i want to be more involved ."
"i used to never care"
"be a vote to pick who us ."
"yes because its what people talk about we are in a ran facility we need to pay attention to that ."
"my political have because had more time to pay attention whats going on around me"
"before i was , i ' t rightly care about politics . now i do because i ' and want what ' s best for myself , my family , and of course my and of the world ."
"yes because are so broad in scope yet each individual being with breaking these have , and needs unique to them as an individual , as well as leading up to them these and more often then not if the right were in place to help them beforehand it could have been . or for example after the have been i dont believe jail or prison should always be the first option . am mostly to people who suffer from an addiction of some sort ."
"well . before i had no interest . yet to grow up . and . learn and self respect it you to want to be part , to make a change"
"go to prison scum ."
"i strongly dont trust the"
no
"how people act and what we all do . jail is no joke"
"i mostly dont really care so much my opinion on the subject matter since i cant vote ."
". more opinionated . towards . people"
"before i had little interest or just to what the general public had to say about """" this """", or """" that """"... but incarceration actually gave me insight and real opinion about politics with being educated by """" old school """" who had me fact check , research , and answer ."
no
"i see other of political due to my racial form"
"range to none violent are sometimes outrageous"
"due to a illegal cop tactic and me on news , i am afraid to step out into due to my ."
"murder to who think wrong the .... in of speaking ..."
"cause how corrupt my county and city and state and is here in , wa"
"i care more due to the impact on my life"
"i would like to have a say in my own future ."
"it did"
"spent 18years out of 41 behind . my civics . wit , and i thought it was cool . i didnt understand the setup part , the , back biting , opposition to itself , within itself that the political arena is . it become a . joke to me . i am to it . i realize now that are not beyond reproach , and adultery is not a privacy concern ."
politics
"i just want to get some to finish my movie ."
". are great"
"yes because i see everything in whole"
"we are a"
"i have become more of a moderate ."
"because no a days more people are loosing or because they become award of the state"
racily
"id rather not share"
"because of finding out more and seeing first hand how the . did us ..."
yes
"experienced the injustice of the justice system . all should be , but it be the same for all who have the same ."
no
"one more interested due to the . of education in this jail . county in this jail than i ever seen in my life time ."
"yes vote a if u dont vote u cant complain"
"i feel like being not my ."
"no ......."
"every day is a learning experience"
"because i belive that i should not . be locked up . for . some . petty . ass"
"its like this .. everything in the political to do with how i feel about everything"
"i dont have a answer"
"i want to be part of the world to make a"
"i think we as a people need to exercise our"
"ever since they let that nigger become this country went to"
"i think about everything since been locked up"
"my political have mostly in to our legal system which i have experienced first hand . i am sad to say that my experience shown me that our legal system is flawed down to its foundation , and in turn i hold little faith in the justice system and its to rehabilitate and re - incorporate into society . on the contrary , my experience shown me that our government only it easier for who have already offended to return to prison in the fashion of a revolving door . i have found that not becoming a victim of recidivism been one of the for me after my incarceration . that i did commit a crime , however , i did serve out my sentence and in turn payed my debt to society . i dont feel that it is fair for me or so many like me to have to be at a disadvantage in of inequality because of our past . maybe our country needs to look at how it with crime so that we can have a better understanding on how to"
"yes i feel left out and be little"
"the system is not up to health"
"being patient always"
"because i watched more news ."
"yes , i think its unfair for who are who are of the , dont get to vote , i feel strongly that no matter what are if weve done are time and are are ways , i feel we should get to vote because it could make a difference . we have a voice , are dont define us"
"the punishment sometimes is too harsh for the crime"
"i dont agree with our law enforcement"
"corrupt law enforcement and court people like"
"become aware of massive corruption inherent in the system ."
"was a democrat now am not"
"[ yes ] prior to prison i was relatively in ... with the . since confinement i ... to the concept of - humanism"
"[ yes ] since i been prison my thinking pattern was lock them up for good . i believe we should have a 2nd chance ."
"[ yes ] they have to be more involved because you see first hand on what ' s going on the corruption , the unfairness , they say one thing and don ' t do it , it make me want to be more involved , and if could do something to help ."
"[ no ]"
"[ no ]"
"[ yes ] not against mass incarceration . people should not be sent to prison for every little reason . the justice system is broken ."
"[ yes ] our president my political completely"
"[ no ]"
[]
"['feel', 'parole', 'board', 'chance', 'chance', 'keep', 'coming', 'back', 'stay', 'trouble', 'never', 'get', 'trouble', 'follow', 'go', 'school', 'better', 'never', 'get', 'chance', 'parole']"
"['yes', 'bit']"
['full']
"['never', 'considered', 'prison', 'population', 'prison', 'reform', 'came', 'plus', 'never', 'considered', 'socioeconomic', 'predisposed', 'become']"
"['change', 'life']"
"['used', 'vote', 'would', 'could']"
"['made', 'look', 'way', 'life', 'differently']"
[]
"['importance', 'vote', 'good', 'government']"
"['see', 'really', 'care']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'would', 'affect', 'state', 'criminal', 'huge', 'way', 'facility', 'discourage']"
"['perspective', 'different']"
['comment']
"['see', 'need']"
[]
"['yes', 'believe', 'western', 'democratic', 'political', 'arena', 'failure', 'fraudulent', 'everything', 'working', 'towards', 'fulfillment', 'corrupt', 'clandestine', 'welfare', 'populace', 'also', 'world', 'whole']"
"['voting', 'one', 'forward', 'participation', 'involved', 'make', 'true', 'change']"
"['always', 'known', 'system', 'perfect', 'especially', 'sight', 'mind', 'idea', 'many', 'live', 'drastically', 'justice', 'system', 'way', 'fact', 'also', 'severely', 'affected', 'system', 'needs', 'overhaul', 'along', 'many', 'need', 'work', 'together', 'compromise', 'greater', 'good', 'cause', 'need', 'analyze', 'interpret', 'thoroughly', 'open', 'minded', 'talk', 'needs', 'redemption', 'change', 'go', 'talk', 'find', 'amplify', 'good']"
"['able', 'look', 'different', 'set']"
"['came', 'prison', 'yes', 'ago', 'understand', 'politics', 'know', 'government', 'conservative']"
"['prison', 'found', 'lord', 'world', 'totally', 'correct']"
['keep']
"['seen', 'insensitive']"
"['would', 'like', 'believe', 'become', 'aware', 'social', 'world', 'general']"
"['come', 'libertarian', 'outlook', 'politics']"
"['see', 'politics', 'throughout', 'nation']"
"['see', 'side']"
"['yes', 'mouthing', 'gig', 'gubernatorial', 'juju']"
"['justice', 'system', 'work', 'mass', 'punishment', 'lawyer', 'justice']"
"['listen', 'sides', 'forming', 'opinion']"
"['grew', 'thinking', 'everything', 'always', 'clear', 'cut', 'thought', 'republican', 'right', 'come', 'understand', 'times', 'recession', 'need', 'democrat', 'bottom', 'economics', 'order', 'stabilize', 'economy', 'need', 'republican', 'trickle', 'economics', 'grow', 'economy', 'idiot', 'like', 'bush', 'trump']"
"['going', 'put', 'way', 'much', 'going', 'days', 'make', 'think', 'world', 'fit', 'end']"
['progressive']
"['different', 'outlook']"
"['hard', 'question', 'different', 'political', 'see', 'different', 'perspective', 'prison', 'reform', 'biggest', 'issue', 'right']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'going', 'prison', 'system', 'seeing', 'hand', 'politics', 'involved', 'get', 'percentage', 'everything']"
"['seen', 'much', 'voice', 'factor']"
"['army', 'right', 'thing', 'felony', 'see', 'want', 'best']"
"['care', 'much', 'anything', 'coming', 'prison', 'thrust', 'seeing', 'pain', 'hearts', 'given', 'love', 'want', 'help', 'plan', 'change', 'needs', 'come', 'way', 'done', 'see', 'see', 'need', 'vote', 'important', 'attitude', 'used', 'saying', 'goes', 'change', 'start']"
"['simple', 'trump']"
[]
['matter']
"['make', 'great', 'decision', 'fit', 'right', 'place', 'take', 'care', 'business', 'lie']"
"['sure', 'probably', 'fact', 'lot', 'older', 'see', 'much', 'differently', 'idealistic', 'young', 'girl', 'girl', 'always', 'saw', 'best', 'really', 'trying', 'solve', 'country', 'realist', 'realize', 'world', 'never', 'going', 'utopia', 'like', 'sandbox', 'two', 'one', 'shovel', 'neither', 'bucket', 'getting', 'filled', 'busy', 'shovel']"
"['incarceration', 'busy', 'care', 'since', 'time', 'slow', 'without', 'worldly', 'distraction', 'come', 'understand', 'important', 'care', 'teach', 'care']"
"['tend', 'little', 'liberal']"
"['willing', 'listen', 'opposing']"
"['president', 'really', 'done', 'good', 'job', 'done']"
"['different', 'view']"
"['gun', 'ownership', 'abuser', 'gun', 'knew', 'gun', 'house', 'would', 'never', 'would', 'never', 'heart', 'stab', 'gun', 'made', 'impersonal', 'easy', 'quick', 'dead', 'also', 'got', 'locked', 'school', 'another', 'huge', 'reason', 'want']"
"['really', 'political', 'view', 'coming', 'prison', 'never', 'attention', 'issue']"
"['thought', 'differently', 'criminal', 'justice', 'seen', 'unfairness', 'many', 'actually', 'mentally', 'ill', 'locked', 'without', 'help', 'need', 'also', 'prison', 'rehabilitation', 'like', 'human', 'warehouse', 'many', 'time', 'serving', 'matter', 'crime', 'given', 'second', 'chance', 'third', 'fourth', 'fifth', 'chance', 'true', 'second', 'chance', 'proven', 'authority', 'behavior', 'institutional', 'record', 'deserve', 'chance', 'back', 'prove', 'law', 'abiding', 'citizen', 'prison', 'reform', 'many', 'depending']"
"['honestly', 'feel', 'anyone', 'drug', 'addict', 'given', 'treatment', 'disease', 'addiction', 'instead', 'several', 'taken', 'extra', 'stress', 'tend', 'support', 'us']"
"['stand', 'republican', 'side', 'still', 'democratic']"
"['become', 'informed', 'since', 'incarnation', 'reading']"
"['used', 'believe', 'system', 'see', 'much', 'corruption']"
"['needs', 'change', 'profiting', 'us', 'livestock']"
"['actually', 'conservative', 'even', 'though', 'opposite', 'would', 'likely']"
['always']
"['got', 'locked', 'interest', 'politics', 'voting', 'interest', 'politics', 'realize', 'everyone', 'view', 'vote', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'make', 'difference', 'starting', 'always', 'told', 'could', 'vote', 'know', 'lie', 'want', 'say', 'office', 'want', 'vote', 'make', 'benefit']"
"['locked', 'different', 'perspective']"
"['coming', 'faith', 'world', 'view', 'political']"
"['political', 'voice', 'speaking']"
"['truly', 'twenty', 'ago', 'time', 'positive', 'incarceration', 'age']"
"['clear', 'view', 'thing', 'mind', 'right', 'took', 'least', 'two', 'locked', 'mind', 'get', 'right']"
"['since', 'life', 'pay', 'attention', 'everything', 'going', 'wish', 'ability', 'vote']"
['liberal']
"['person', 'conscientious', 'decision', 'accept', 'lord', 'savior', 'change', 'henceforth', 'spirit', 'filled', 'according', 'progression', 'one', 'spiritual', 'knowledge', 'revelation']"
"['young', 'got', 'locked', 'gotten', 'older', 'watched', 'horribly', 'wrong', 'everything', 'gotten', 'made', 'want', 'get', 'involved', 'learn', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'able', 'make', 'difference']"
"['need', 'serious', 'wrong', 'within', 'country', 'example', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'homelessness', 'hunger', 'ever', 'growing', 'oppression', 'poor', 'public', 'needs', 'aware', 'turned', 'police', 'state', 'way', 'political', 'system', 'thus', 'conscious', 'politics', 'ever']"
"['way', 'law', 'works', 'needs', 'help']"
"['could', 'less', 'politics', 'younger', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'believe', 'better', 'informed', 'make', 'decision', 'could', 'care', 'less', 'responsibility', 'taking', 'care', 'country', 'country', 'wear', 'much', 'sleeve']"
"['wish', 'still']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'die', 'hard', 'democratic', 'incarceration', 'clearly', 'see', 'democratic', 'party', 'used', 'poor', 'color']"
"['almost', 'political', 'view', 'got', 'locked', 'since', 'forced', 'around', 'different', 'racially', 'culturally', 'many', 'life', 'many', 'many', 'fundamental', 'us', 'love', 'want', 'vote', 'going', 'best', 'since', 'personally', 'pretty', 'much', 'toast']"
"['learned', 'world', 'work']"
"['see', 'society', 'want', 'give', 'chance']"
"['strongly', 'felt', 'woman', 'capable', 'running', 'great', 'country']"
"['life', 'chang', 'see', 'life', 'really']"
"['saw', 'problem', 'meaning', 'affected', 'higher', 'priority', 'see', 'community', 'need', 'work', 'achieve', 'helping', 'around', 'us', 'change', 'see', 'nation', 'today', 'used', 'supporter', 'particular', 'political', 'party', 'support', 'one', 'feel', 'strongly', 'without', 'rest', 'political', 'however', 'tend', 'look', 'candidate', 'vote', 'one', 'party', 'regardless']"
"['yeah', 'somewhat', 'would', 'love', 'see', 'lot', 'change']"
"['raised', 'trust', 'raised', 'church', 'good', 'home', 'child', 'married', 'good', 'man', 'great', 'thought', 'honest', 'lady', 'worked', 'us', 'grocery', 'store', 'husband', 'pa', 'made', 'theatrical', 'play', 'found', 'us', 'guilty', 'never', 'one', 'husband', 'dressed', 'supreme', 'court', 'wife', 'supreme', 'court', 'justice', 'time', 'given', 'new', 'trial', 'received', 'life', 'sentence', 'years', 'yes', 'political', 'god', 'survive', 'sorry', 'long']"
"['become', 'concerned', 'fight', 'agenda', 'hatred', 'aware', 'anti', 'need', 'nation', 'stand']"
"['concerned', 'government', 'country', 'incarceration', 'government']"
"['well', 'prison', 'never', 'political', 'family', 'took', 'political', 'however', 'research', 'come', 'conclusion', 'upon', 'research']"
['trump']
"['open', 'minded']"
"['think', 'someone', 'care', 'willing', 'help']"
"['cause', 'chance', 'vote', 'opinion']"
"['law', 'corrupt', 'person', 'white', 'collar', 'crime']"
"['know', 'political', 'since', 'came', 'prison', 'time', 'offender', 'never', 'read', 'book', 'add', 'raised', 'domestically', 'abusive', 'household', 'severe', 'sexual', 'abuse', 'boy', 'scout', 'leader', 'know', 'believe', 'world', 'certainly', 'politics', 'concerned', 'prison', 'would', 'survive', 'facing', 'life', 'without', 'parole', 'emotionally', 'place', 'contemplate', 'power', 'outside', 'hurt', 'similar', 'took', 'able', 'share', 'truth', 'lead', 'begin', 'discover', 'consider', 'would', 'someone', 'shaping', 'legislation', 'think', 'fighting', 'learn', 'grow', 'inner', 'belief', 'fight', 'keep', 'government', 'growing']"
"['vote', 'complain', 'life', 'vote', 'chance']"
"['still', 'dislike', 'politics', 'general', 'see']"
"['prison', 'pro', 'death', 'sentence', 'see', 'system', 'faith', 'get', 'right']"
"['become', 'conservative', 'although', 'believe', 'need', 'receive', 'assistance', 'life', 'immoral', 'one', 'suffer', 'hunger']"
"['interested', 'politics']"
"['political', 'since', 'grown', 'lot', 'since', 'taught', 'think']"
"['news', 'comes', 'either', 'talking', 'mass', 'shooting', 'assault', 'police', 'shot', 'another', 'unarmed']"
['need']
"['war', 'politics', 'trying', 'become', 'peaceful', 'united']"
"['go', 'hand', 'hand', 'like', 'ignorance', 'fear', 'walk', 'hand', 'hand', 'part', 'law', 'reform', 'money', 'law', 'legal', 'well', 'thing', 'world', 'better', 'found', 'done', 'involved', 'foundational', 'thing', 'nation', 'great', 'right', 'put', 'action', 'voting', 'thing']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'understand', 'good', 'point', 'comes', 'particular', 'political']"
['question']
"['used', 'mostly', 'liberal', 'conservative']"
"['sober', 'going', 'really']"
"['use', 'think', 'prison', 'right', 'vote']"
"['longer', 'believe', 'life', 'offense', 'unusually', 'brutal', 'depraved', 'either', 'sentence', 'death', 'allow', 'chance', 'rehabilitation', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'poorly', 'ran', 'system', 'affect']"
"['care', 'politics']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'since']"
"['totally', 'different', 'system', 'thought', 'system', 'fair', 'righteous', 'bigger', 'lock', 'simply', 'prosecute']"
[]
"['past', 'incarceration', 'aware', 'politics', 'president', 'little', 'thought', 'rehabilitation', 'release', 'focus', 'release', 'black', 'drug', 'federal', 'level', 'providing', 'second', 'chance', 'repeat', 'behavior', 'president', 'trump', 'entry', 'education', 'forgotten', 'left']"
"['way', 'look']"
"['aware', 'ever']"
['trump']
"['would', 'prison', 'one', 'vote', 'never', 'got', 'position', 'never', 'able', 'vote', 'lifer']"
"['around', 'system', 'lot', 'change']"
"['gotten', 'intense', 'political', 'conversation', 'expanded']"
"['since', 'long', 'seen', 'crazy', 'drug', 'time', 'anyone']"
"['think', 'prison', 'needs', 'seen', 'different', 'view', 'willing', 'try', 'get', 'voting', 'getting', 'voice']"
['almost']
"['feel', 'like', 'even', 'concern']"
"['yes', 'quite', 'lot', 'however', 'cannot', 'type', 'truth', 'type', 'anything']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'life', 'parole', 'formed', 'type', 'political', 'time', 'imprisonment', 'formed', 'since', 'coming', 'prison', 'even', 'since', 'death']"
['listen']
"['know', 'say', 'want']"
"['sent', 'prison', 'see', 'daily', 'basis', 'inside', 'get', 'almost', 'constant', 'beat', 'instead', 'uplifting', 'change', 'able', 'change', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'life', 'sometimes', 'forced', 'drug', 'use', 'would', 'think', 'normal', 'circumstance', 'believe', 'anyone', 'change', 'matter', 'done', 'past', 'repeat', 'behavior', 'future']"
"['years', 'old', 'came', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics', 'since', 'got', 'older', 'mid', 'tend', 'watch']"
"['yes', 'learned', 'god', 'way', 'living']"
"['democrat', 'however', 'become', 'republican']"
"['looking', 'outside', 'incarceration', 'know', 'bad', 'corrupt', 'prison', 'system', 'truly', 'daily', 'skillfully', 'hidden', 'public', 'like', 'free', 'world', 'got', 'caught', 'honestly', 'done', 'something', 'illegal', 'caught']"
"['got', 'even', 'opinion', 'well', 'lot']"
"['care', 'charge']"
"['become', 'consciously', 'awaken']"
"['past', 'politics', 'bearing', 'tune', 'also', 'curious', 'make', 'contribution', 'society']"
"['become', 'aware', 'importance', 'united', 'need', 'remain', 'free', 'vote', 'country', 'founding', 'originally', 'established', 'constitution', 'simple', 'sure', 'true', 'never', 'since', 'learned', 'lot']"
"['used', 'care', 'political', 'see', 'really', 'matter', 'decision', 'end', 'better', 'make', 'worse', 'us', 'inside', 'care']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'much', 'got', 'locked', 'thank', 'lot', 'thing', 'never', 'really', 'thought']"
"['pawn', 'corruption', 'department', 'parole', 'board', 'dramatically']"
"['made', 'concern', 'politics', 'need', 'express', 'much', 'opinionated', 'thought', 'matter', 'see', 'truly', 'know', 'compassionately', 'driven', 'greater', 'good']"
"['never', 'really', 'interested', 'politics', 'prison', 'important']"
"['locked', 'really', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'political', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'concerned', 'opinionated']"
"['never', 'vote', 'party', 'cause']"
"['use', 'believe', 'lock', 'away', 'key', 'deserve', 'another', 'dance', 'redemption']"
"['prison', 'shown', 'take', 'away', 'someone', 'right', 'vote', 'take', 'away', 'real', 'way', 'change', 'better', 'true', 'incentive', 'political', 'figure', 'real', 'reform', 'know', 'help', 'hurt', 'ballot', 'box', 'much', 'mistreatment', 'abuse', 'goes', 'prison', 'helping', 'worst', 'society', 'prison', 'exactly', 'socialist', 'system', 'would', 'evolve', 'corruption', 'always', 'find', 'way', 'coarse', 'simply', 'one', 'specific', 'point', 'multifaceted', 'set', 'extend', 'far', 'beyond', 'prison', 'original', 'point', 'still']"
"['interested', 'republican', 'job', 'hired']"
"['think', 'care', 'true', 'justice', 'broken', 'system', 'inside', 'system', 'believe', 'behind', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['incarceration', 'shown', 'took', 'voting']"
"['political', 'world']"
"['seen', 'used', 'scare', 'public', 'public', 'lied', 'us', 'example', 'scream', 'cannot', 'let', 'return', 'true', 'statistics', 'show', 'recidivism', 'among', 'especially', 'spent', 'time', 'behind', 'around']"
"['period', 'time', 'political']"
"['see', 'country', 'getting', 'ran', 'ground']"
"['maturity', 'mostly', 'becoming', 'aware', 'clue', 'adolescent']"
"['youth', 'really', 'political', 'point', 'view', 'though', 'strong', 'supporter', 'lock', 'thirty', 'five', 'year', 'born', 'whole', 'value', 'system']"
"['abortion', 'gay', 'gun', 'control', 'government', 'also', 'know', 'corruption', 'corrupt', 'police', 'inmate', 'say']"
"['much', 'informed', 'foreign', 'policy']"
"['incarceration', 'thought', 'democratic', 'democratic', 'party', 'current', 'president', 'term', 'favorable', 'kind', 'wish', 'associated', 'party', 'interested', 'personal', 'public', 'needs']"
"['vote', 'could', 'make', 'difference']"
"['free', 'much', 'think', 'like', 'criminal', 'justice', 'homeless', 'border', 'protection', 'see', 'really', 'matter']"
"['since', 'see', 'republican', 'party', 'curb', 'ongoing', 'incarceration', 'trend', 'help', 'reduce', 'future', 'trend', 'needless', 'incarceration', 'frivolous']"
"['vote', 'office', 'community', 'vote', 'run', 'country']"
"['yes', 'due', 'fact', 'political', 'corrupt', 'ways', 'running', 'country']"
"['cause', 'agree']"
"['yes', 'begun', 'look', 'reform']"
[]
"['making', 'law', 'self', 'country']"
"['understand', 'important', 'vote', 'would', 'mean', 'look', 'kind', 'president', 'running', 'country']"
"['shown', 'political', 'interested', 'individual']"
[]
"['yes', 'want', 'change']"
"['never', 'thought', 'prison']"
"['prison', 'let', 'see', 'different', 'light', 'see', 'injustice', 'done', 'throughout', 'justice', 'system', 'time', 'structured', 'fairly', 'child', 'much', 'time', 'time', 'manslaughter', 'murder']"
"['political', 'view', 'know', 'try', 'stay', 'informed', 'watch', 'done']"
"['though', 'become', 'political', 'circus', 'say', 'perform', 'office']"
"['yes', 'care', 'since', 'prison', 'learned', 'lot', 'understand', 'vote', 'also', 'old', 'got']"
[]
"['made', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'country', 'much', 'policy', 'every', 'person', 'matter']"
"['much', 'aware']"
"['prison', 'get', 'see', 'society', 'different', 'way', 'good', 'see', 'everything', 'different', 'manner']"
[]
"['aware', 'systematical', 'country', 'facing', 'separation', 'dividing', 'great', 'nation', 'political', 'fighting', 'common', 'interest', 'always', 'lie', 'replace', 'wrong', 'mind', 'nation', 'stand', 'majority', 'poor']"
"['thinking', 'bout', 'none', 'political', 'world', 'cause', 'understand', 'important']"
"['use', 'always', 'coming', 'prison', 'see', 'hard', 'work', 'struggling', 'always', 'make', 'everything', 'complicated']"
"['well', 'came', 'year', 'old', 'boy', 'year', 'old', 'man', 'brink', 'release']"
"['never', 'almost', 'received', 'death', 'penalty', 'opinion', 'capital', 'punishment', 'went']"
"['ran', 'political', 'grinder']"
"['become', 'aware', 'hate', 'since']"
"['locked', 'interest', 'politics']"
"['th', 'grade', 'education', 'know', 'nothing', 'politics', 'prison', 'know', 'good', 'deal', 'politics']"
"['democrat', 'period', 'still', 'question', 'love', 'much', 'straightforward', 'genocide']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
['identify']
"['much', 'open', 'tolerant', 'see', 'con', 'man', 'smoke', 'screen', 'politics', 'afraid', 'voter', 'see', 'con', 'man']"
"['political', 'understand', 'taxation', 'without', 'representation', 'pay', 'tax', 'even', 'local', 'tax', 'shown', 'like', 'get', 'vote', 'whether', 'want', 'pass', 'tax', 'build', 'new', 'jail', 'improve', 'tax', 'soft']"
"['sense', 'forties', 'said', 'lot', 'aware', 'world', 'become', 'change', 'downfall']"
"['time', 'really', 'study', 'politics', 'found', 'nearly', 'lie', 'get', 'vote', 'ever', 'promise', 'also', 'many', 'government', 'think', 'law', 'accountable', 'suppose', 'work', 'even', 'president', 'united', 'everyone', 'know', 'president', 'office', 'works', 'rich', 'powerful']"
[]
"['informed', 'less']"
['know']
"['around', 'opinion', 'lived', 'environment', 'long', 'engrained', 'nature', 'matter', 'hard', 'fought']"
"['old', 'learned', 'grown', 'many', 'ways']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'therefore', 'political', 'concept', 'family', 'environment', 'made', 'transition', 'male', 'man', 'learned', 'individualize', 'process', 'study', 'show', 'thyself', 'approval']"
"['watch', 'news', 'daily', 'keep', 'everything', 'going', 'world', 'watch', 'news']"
"['yes', 'going', 'around', 'world']"
"['yes', 'experienced', 'legal', 'system', 'know', 'really', 'hand', 'experience']"
"['come', 'back']"
"['know', 'certain', 'political', 'poor']"
['different']
[]
"['time', 'study', 'plus', 'think']"
"['used', 'believe', 'state', 'system', 'know', 'true']"
['redder']
"['dramatically', 'since', 'able', 'learn', 'real', 'face', 'majority', 'prison', 'population', 'understanding', 'base', 'political', 'trying', 'reform', 'prison', 'system']"
"['make', 'different']"
"['realize', 'important', 'vote']"
"['never', 'chance', 'lost', 'interest', 'cause', 'felon']"
"['care', 'politics', 'due', 'state', 'country', 'despite', 'family', 'works', 'federal', 'government', 'state']"
"['see', 'used', 'think', 'black', 'white', 'time', 'think', 'political', 'make', 'lot', 'way']"
"['well', 'consider', 'progressive', 'however', 'tempered', 'liberal', 'crime', 'reform', 'seeing', 'reality', 'day', 'day', 'unrealistic']"
"['see', 'poverty', 'level']"
"['want', 'someone', 'office', 'really', 'best', 'interest', 'heart']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'aware', 'position', 'life', 'far', 'mean', 'society', 'important', 'society', 'far', 'making', 'change']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'growing', 'inside', 'made', 'form']"
"['trump', 'lot', 'incorrect', 'wall', 'stuff', 'get', 'stuff', 'done', 'course', 'speak']"
"['becoming', 'conservative']"
"['bipartisanship', 'acting', 'favor', 'party', 'favor', 'represent']"
['yes']
['free']
"['want', 'vote', 'stand', 'right', 'world', 'continue', 'head', 'wrong', 'direction', 'much', 'society', 'us', 'us', 'look', 'child', 'killing', 'get', 'caught', 'stealing', 'selling', 'time', 'right', 'need', 'rehabilitation', 'help', 'learning', 'lo', 'live', 'normal']"
"['political', 'situation', 'wanting', 'socialist', 'government', 'type', 'life']"
"['filled', 'drug', 'use', 'criminal', 'activity', 'authority', 'selfish', 'many', 'believe', 'deserve', 'prison', 'hate', 'grow', 'sooner', 'likely', 'die', 'prison', 'see', 'world', 'different', 'respect', 'understand', 'lot']"
"['aware', 'political']"
['really']
"['pay', 'attention']"
['future']
"['yes', 'use', 'swing', 'toward', 'democratic', 'side', 'clearly', 'see', 'lot', 'go', 'morals', 'believe', 'republican', 'party', 'conscience', 'god', 'built', 'upon', 'morals', 'found', 'yet', 'seem', 'lost', 'way']"
"['truly', 'never', 'thought', 'much', 'although', 'supposed', 'compare', 'amongst', 'need', 'sort', 'standard', 'consistency', 'parole', 'board', 'become', 'second', 'jury', 'look', 'around', 'count', 'made', 'parole', 'leave']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'going', 'judicial', 'system', 'force', 'dig', 'history', 'see', 'worked', 'political', 'party', 'made', 'rehabilitative', 'go']"
"['aware', 'importance', 'politics', 'effect', 'everything', 'everyone', 'thus', 'making', 'want', 'say', 'direct', 'effect', 'quality', 'life', 'lived']"
"['went', 'casual', 'observer', 'depth', 'research', 'coming', 'conclusion', 'independent', 'moderate', 'believe', 'balance', 'compromise', 'agree', 'conservative', 'platform', 'fiscally', 'responsible', 'lowering', 'keeping', 'government', 'everyday', 'life', 'however', 'disagree', 'conservative', 'ideology', 'need', 'hand', 'necessarily', 'hand', 'somewhat', 'disagree', 'economical', 'concept', 'trickle', 'effect', 'repeatedly', 'shown', 'good', 'go', 'stock', 'board', 'much', 'everyday', 'working', 'class', 'average', 'joe', 'agree', 'liberal', 'platform', 'government', 'correcting', 'society', 'much', 'leftist', 'platform', 'tearing', 'government', 'starting', 'completely', 'since', 'political', 'even', 'identity', 'liberal', 'democrat']"
"['yes', 'become']"
"['incarceration', 'never', 'thought', 'politics']"
"['see', 'really']"
"['yes', 'much', 'since', 'political', 'party']"
"['thing', 'best', 'fallow', 'closely', 'effect']"
['good']
"['learned', 'known', 'really', 'like']"
"['look', 'different']"
"['sober', 'care']"
"['party', 'would', 'choose']"
"['yes', 'always']"
"['incarceration', 'political']"
['unbalanced']
"['since', 'seventeen', 'year', 'old', 'girl', 'opinion', 'care', 'follow', 'politics', 'look', 'happening', 'hope', 'see', 'change', 'help', 'one', 'upon', 'release']"
"['person', 'number', 'vote', 'make', 'society', 'better', 'place']"
"['given', 'much', 'attention', 'past']"
"['maybe', 'age', 'see', 'lot', 'propaganda', 'exposed']"
"['almost', 'none', 'left', 'best', 'interest', 'feel', 'grand', 'utopian', 'dream', 'like', 'affirmative', 'action', 'welfare', 'rekindle', 'old', 'racial', 'divide', 'us', 'left', 'attention', 'misleading', 'like', 'racism', 'thwart', 'common', 'sense', 'stem', 'flow', 'illegal', 'southern', 'border', 'terrorist', 'profit', 'driving', 'thriving', 'yearly', 'addiction', 'death', 'dismal', 'economy', 'left', 'right', 'track', 'little', 'extreme', 'comes', 'environment', 'believe', 'ecological', 'differ', 'achieve', 'less', 'culture', 'consumption', 'demand', 'demand', 'indifferent', 'environment', 'couple', 'trillion', 'worth', 'plastic']"
"['knowledge', 'going']"
"['time', 'examine', 'system', 'vote', 'voice', 'opinion', 'felon', 'got', 'right', 'change', 'society', 'forced', 'live', 'abide', 'made', 'men', 'worse']"
"['well', 'time', 'really', 'get', 'understand', 'streets', 'balderdash']"
"['young', 'never', 'chance', 'vote', 'weigh', 'matter', 'aware', 'politics', 'follow', 'however', 'slightly', 'used']"
['star']
"['used', 'strictly', 'democratic', 'republican', 'party', 'economy']"
"['fact', 'try']"
['know']
"['use', 'care', 'politics', 'voting', 'incarnation', 'believe', 'make', 'difference', 'community', 'concern']"
"['yes', 'see', 'lot', 'stuff', 'effects']"
"['well', 'locked', 'ten', 'lot', 'since', 'free', 'world', 'would', 'love', 'able', 'vote', 'make', 'vote', 'count']"
"['master', 'sever']"
"['anyone', 'ahead', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'plan', 'supporting', 'could', 'mean', 'freedom']"
"['would', 'like']"
['actually']
"['care', 'get', 'go']"
"['came', 'prison']"
"['learned', 'government', 'supposed']"
[]
"['want', 'incarcerate', 'rehabilitate', 'want', 'release', 'anyone', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['longer', 'believe', 'judicial', 'system', 'especially', 'believe', 'correctional', 'system', 'feel', 'equal', 'politically', 'one', 'outdated']"
"['think', 'vote', 'matter', 'know', 'better']"
"['use', 'care']"
"['one', 'made', 'mistake', 'life', 'bad', 'made', 'mistake', 'make', 'right', 'right', 'wrong', 'said']"
"['respect', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'trump', 'glorious', 'leader', 'importance', 'conservative', 'family', 'bearing', 'fate', 'nation', 'despite', 'opposition', 'politically', 'incorrect', 'feel', 'core', 'resonate', 'mine', 'feel', 'going', 'look', 'back', 'realize', 'trump', 'central', 'campaign', 'also', 'believe', 'conservative', 'majority', 'activist', 'supreme', 'court', 'service', 'continually', 'pay', 'throughout', 'lifetime']"
"['since', 'corrupt', 'yes', 'needs', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['since', 'locked', 'education', 'informed', 'life', 'voting', 'incarnation', 'gave', 'different', 'society']"
"['look', 'life', 'really', 'person', 'taken', 'selfish', 'state', 'mind', 'come', 'understand', 'needs', 'met', 'one', 'person', 'one', 'race', 'one', 'city', 'one', 'state', 'one', 'country', 'making', 'world', 'place', 'facing', 'reality']"
"['society', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'news', 'since', 'attention', 'direction', 'society', 'going', 'said', 'interest', 'let', 'voice', 'said']"
"['care', 'politics', 'voting', 'criminal', 'justice', 'personal', 'see', 'community', 'never', 'watched', 'news', 'read', 'newspaper', 'going', 'world', 'got', 'locked', 'become', 'activist', 'reform', 'time', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'drastically', 'part', 'solution', 'part', 'problem', 'help', 'become', 'aware', 'prison', 'help', 'society']"
"['view', 'politics', 'felon', 'see', 'lack', 'understanding', 'care']"
"['never', 'concern', 'sent', 'house', 'never', 'astronomical', 'amount', 'revenue', 'wasted', 'expense', 'flawed', 'system', 'time', 'went', 'try', 'change', 'broken', 'met', 'extreme', 'resistance', 'fix', 'anything', 'also', 'given', 'time', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'political', 'choose', 'listen', 'read']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'thought', 'world', 'welfare', 'awesome', 'want', 'someone', 'role', 'human']"
"['taught', 'become', 'book', 'writer']"
"['cause', 'young', 'got', 'locked', 'view', 'cause', 'matter', 'see', 'going', 'country', 'want', 'say', 'vote', 'try', 'change', 'right', 'complain', 'happening', 'willing', 'help', 'change']"
"['raised', 'republican', 'family', 'side', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'made', 'aware', 'need', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment']"
"['seen', 'much', 'hate', 'chaos', 'confusion', 'warped', 'sense', 'thinking', 'twisted']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'realize', 'society', 'works', 'everyone', 'equal', 'everyone', 'responsibility']"
"['believe', 'length', 'unjust', 'one', 'equally', 'another', 'also', 'keep']"
"['really', 'political', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'know', 'need', 'vote', 'way', 'hold', 'accountable', 'turn', 'protect', 'everyone', 'civil', 'fact', 'civil', 'watch', 'dogs']"
"['change', 'feel', 'party', 'wrong', 'view']"
"['used', 'lot', 'faith', 'government', 'ability', 'solve', 'common', 'man', 'see', 'talking', 'actually']"
"['yes', 'ways', 'president', 'good']"
[]
"['matter', 'democratic', 'republican', 'much', 'fighting', 'going', 'need', 'stop', 'fighting', 'whether', 'democratic', 'republican', 'tearing', 'apart']"
"['time', 'actually', 'listen', 'trying', 'generally', 'tell', 'serious']"
"['time', 'lighter', 'repeat']"
"['see', 'harm', 'president', 'try', 'work', 'together', 'one', 'nation', 'instead', 'make', 'investigation', 'take', 'money', 'time']"
"['went', 'democratic', 'really', 'supporting', 'neither', 'neither', 'help']"
"['care', 'know']"
[]
"['know', 'really', 'political', 'towards', 'mixed', 'confused', 'really', 'educated', 'smart', 'enough', 'know', 'speaking', 'political']"
"['yes', 'good', 'vote']"
"['uneducated', 'political', 'abundance', 'informed', 'necessary', 'criteria', 'form']"
"['understand', 'problem']"
['prison']
"['think', 'angry', 'ex', 'con', 'grudge']"
"['time', 'watch', 'keep', 'political', 'agenda']"
"['year', 'good', 'amount', 'time', 'yes', 'political']"
"['well', 'upon', 'kept', 'news', 'political']"
[]
"['yes', 'didnt', 'nothing', 'politics', 'period', 'educated']"
['care']
[]
"['think', 'differently', 'fairness', 'well']"
['look']
"['used', 'think', 'judicial', 'system', 'fair', 'got', 'locked']"
"['yes', 'years', 'fighting', 'unjust', 'conviction', 'knowing', 'authority', 'change', 'law', 'fast', 'track', 'justice']"
"['learn', 'politics']"
['full']
"['watched', 'news', 'attention', 'actually']"
[]
"['star', 'pop']"
"['need', 'justice']"
['elaborate']
"['country', 'trouble']"
"['previously', 'care', 'less', 'politics', 'concerning', 'incarceration', 'never', 'would', 'example', 'eat', 'lucky', 'even', 'get', 'water', 'sometimes', 'even', 'grievance', 'always', 'deny', 'parole', 'time', 'give', 'seriousness', 'crime', 'death', 'involved', 'considered', 'judge', 'court', 'double', 'especially', 'inmate', 'stayed', 'trouble', 'also', 'state', 'ever', 'pay', 'left', 'believe', 'ar', 'al', 'two', 'legislation', 'start', 'hearing', 'even', 'hearing', 'lot', 'never', 'honest', 'job', 'hustle', 'get', 'like', 'special', 'food', 'several', 'like', 'monthly', 'chicken', 'pizza', 'would', 'make', 'sense', 'pay', 'small', 'amount']"
"['yes', 'thought', 'alright', 'got', 'debt', 'president', 'yes', 'bad', 'thing', 'believe', 'good', 'bad', 'maybe', 'wife', 'go', 'back', 'forth', 'much', 'need', 'become', 'country', 'split', 'need', 'work', 'together', 'fight', 'either', 'become', 'country', 'less', 'dirty', 'person', 'look', 'closet', 'afterwards', 'sure', 'sorry', 'closet']"
"['political', 'want', 'money', 'power']"
"['never', 'one', 'way', 'another']"
"['little', 'attention', 'news', 'idea', 'going', 'politically', 'world', 'wide']"
['republican']
['help']
"['interested', 'political']"
"['well', 'slice', 'system', 'label', 'like', 'target', 'back', 'always', 'seen', 'badly', 'like', 'human', 'take', 'top', 'make', 'new', 'effect', 'yeah', 'political', 'take', 'turn', 'change']"
"['forgotten', 'comes', 'time', 'good', 'time']"
"['deserve', 'built', 'majority', 'country', 'number', 'yet', 'count']"
"['wish', 'could']"
"['prison', 'slow', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'government', 'action', 'put', 'motion', 'country']"
"['prison', 'vote', 'help', 'keep', 'prison', 'help']"
"['got', 'think', 'plan', 'future', 'impact', 'political']"
"['never', 'really', 'interested', 'government', 'came', 'prison']"
"['used', 'care']"
"['mostly', 'response', 'election', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'politics', 'obscure', 'distant', 'part', 'life', 'occasion', 'really', 'ever', 'president', 'since', 'incarceration', 'learned', 'law', 'us', 'used', 'want', 'expatriate', 'come', 'stark', 'realization', 'change', 'comes', 'inside', 'abandon', 'address', 'leave', 'country', 'need', 'work', 'create', 'better', 'future', 'inside', 'yes', 'follow', 'politics', 'learn', 'strive', 'get', 'involved', 'however']"
['time']
"['believe', 'important', 'going', 'world']"
"['ways', 'feel', 'certain', 'punishment', 'clearly', 'validate', 'prison', 'sentence', 'moral', 'compass', 'matter', 'ten', 'think', 'take', 'away', 'much', 'care', 'country', 'headed', 'currently', 'get', 'say', 'care', 'give', 'person', 'motivation', 'much', 'better', 'current', 'environment', 'motivation', 'benefit', 'actual', 'sustained', 'change', 'work', 'sit', 'around', 'day', 'minimal', 'mental', 'health', 'concern', 'kind', 'change', 'happen', 'long', 'talk', 'nothing']"
"['better', 'outlook']"
"['understand', 'person', 'see', 'educated', 'child', 'education', 'received', 'corrupted', 'miseducation', 'thinking', 'persuaded', 'make', 'bad', 'decision']"
"['made', 'choice', 'commit', 'crime', 'crime', 'depict', 'flesh', 'control', 'destiny', 'period', 'time', 'cost', 'life', 'wisdom', 'government', 'label', 'take']"
"['see', 'inside', 'politics', 'control']"
"['see', 'politics']"
"['used', 'care']"
['care']
['cant']
[]
"['neither', 'party', 'unified', 'bring', 'together']"
"['direct', 'answer']"
"['yes', 'different', 'behind']"
"['used', 'care']"
"['care', 'reform']"
"['see', 'big', 'picture']"
"['incarceration', 'forced', 'look', 'lot', 'different', 'instance', 'current', 'president', 'popular', 'despite', 'fact', 'economy', 'well']"
"['made', 'aware', 'abroad']"
"['felon', 'crime', 'see', 'society', 'us', 'even', 'though', 'mean', 'real', 'real', 'need', 'especially', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'think', 'needs', 'reform', 'time']"
"['never', 'interested', 'government', 'got', 'two', 'see', 'important', 'vote', 'right', 'office']"
"['top', 'cause', 'care', 'modern', 'day', 'group', 'communist']"
[]
"['interested', 'politics', 'informed', 'different']"
"['prison', 'would', 'republican', 'republican', 'frown', 'democrat', 'homosexual']"
"['used', 'think', 'nothing', 'politics', 'care', 'around']"
['us']
"['juvenile', 'naturally']"
"['blessed', 'know', 'god']"
"['like', 'president']"
"['become', 'political', 'aware']"
['none']
"['part', 'making', 'better', 'country', 'personal', 'reflection', 'reform', 'one', 'realize']"
"['informed', 'social', 'spectrum', 'extra', 'time', 'given', 'time', 'absorb', 'better', 'discernment', 'absent', 'social', 'media']"
"['political', 'since', 'government']"
"['know', 'situation', 'see', 'could', 'care', 'less']"
"['one', 'concerned', 'locked', 'like', 'drug', 'murder']"
"['ignorant', 'made', 'male', 'offender', 'female', 'confined', 'serve', 'longer', 'harder', 'us', 'make', 'parole', 'plus', 'get', 'skill', 'training', 'go', 'get', 'dollar', 'hour', 'back', 'working', 'cashier', 'store', 'lucky']"
"['way', 'democratic', 'party', 'reason', 'would', 'vote', 'republican']"
"['voice', 'important', 'know', 'responsibility', 'make', 'sure']"
"['look', 'totally', 'positive', 'way']"
"['compassion', 'justice', 'system', 'feel', 'country', 'going', 'ago']"
"['ever', 'one', 'voting', 'keep', 'level', 'sex', 'locked', 'promise', 'write', 'completely', 'untrue', 'responsible', 'prosecute', 'according', 'involvement']"
"['view', 'prison', 'system', 'system', 'suppose', 'help', 'make', 'better', 'person', 'vote', 'care', 'us', 'lot', 'time', 'little', 'lock', 'us', 'make', 'us', 'work', 'free', 'make', 'money', 'us', 'get', 'training', 'education', 'life', 'matter', 'much', 'time', 'got']"
['know']
"['sex', 'offender', 'feel', 'feel', 'state', 'look', 'lot']"
"['always', 'say', 'race', 'thing', 'come', 'black', 'president']"
"['learned', 'original', 'political', 'detail', 'realize', 'wrong']"
"['nineteen', 'got', 'locked', 'never', 'understood', 'politics', 'like', 'today', 'know', 'everything', 'knowledge', 'understanding', 'much', 'better', 'fifty', 'six']"
['news']
[]
"['take', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'busy', 'care']"
['forgotten']
"['pay', 'attention', 'political']"
"['vote', 'may', 'one']"
"['become', 'much', 'cynical', 'separate']"
"['concerned', 'world', 'going', 'voice']"
"['aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'also', 'need', 'facilitate', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment', 'better', 'chance', 'becoming', 'productive', 'society', 'get', 'also', 'better', 'appreciate', 'social', 'safety', 'reform', 'since', 'locked']"
"['rehabilitation', 'us']"
"['get', 'television', 'something']"
"['previous', 'incarceration', 'really', 'consider', 'government', 'something', 'control', 'lost', 'right', 'vote', 'really', 'control', 'government', 'sometimes', 'feel', 'like', 'opinion', 'weight', 'whatsoever', 'therefor', 'usually', 'keep', 'survey', 'time', 'someone', 'besides', 'interest', 'hearing', 'anything', 'say', 'politics']"
"['incarceration', 'see', 'unjust', 'justice', 'system', 'really']"
"['see', 'prison', 'system', 'busted', 'state', 'us', 'nothing', 'rehabilitate', 'rehabilitate']"
"['feel', 'like', 'become', 'informed', 'free', 'world', 'time', 'worry']"
"['wish', 'chance', 'help', 'create', 'better', 'way']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['yes', 'see', 'sides']"
"['yes', 'see', 'rehabilitation', 'need', 'prison', 'even', 'go', 'prison']"
"['pay', 'much', 'attention', 'always', 'working']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['since', 'lean', 'towards', 'prison', 'reform', 'trying', 'find', 'ways', 'better', 'release']"
['cant']
"['used', 'believe', 'solid', 'reason', 'vote', 'betterment', 'yet', 'mostly', 'seen', 'political', 'ulterior', 'government', 'sad', 'really', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'tell', 'understand', 'make', 'everyone', 'happy', 'important', 'cause']"
"['since', 'notice', 'way', 'thinking', 'many', 'describe', 'entitlement', 'merely', 'want', 'blame', 'government', 'hold', 'accountable']"
['somewhat']
['unsure']
"['wow', 'see', 'although', 'still', 'try', 'listen', 'trust', 'like', 'trump', 'dad', 'mind', 'completely', 'made', 'opinion']"
"['opposed', 'execution', 'came', 'also', 'believe', 'need', 'line']"
"['yah', 'see', 'bigger', 'picture']"
"['vote', 'could', 'help']"
"['judicial', 'system', 'poison']"
"['really', 'care']"
[]
"['made', 'better', 'men']"
"['never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['good', 'place', 'rather', 'family', 'sooner', 'get', 'better']"
['none']
"['yes', 'prison', 'federal', 'state', 'said', 'use', 'yet', 'fed', 'bottom', 'barrel', 'housing', 'poor', 'hardly', 'works', 'force', 'proper', 'paper', 'work', 'paint', 'rust', 'fungus', 'show', 'money', 'hurt', 'medical', 'attempt', 'sue', 'paper', 'work', 'works']"
"['spent', 'time', 'following', 'politics', 'country']"
"['used', 'care', 'see', 'effect', 'everyone']"
"['never', 'really', 'anything', 'politics', 'seen', 'democratic', 'party', 'president', 'time', 'took', 'office', 'democratic', 'party', 'done', 'everything', 'power', 'undermine', 'never', 'stick', 'foot', 'mouth', 'times', 'force', 'place', 'protect', 'office', 'democratic', 'party', 'beginning', 'found', 'necessary', 'fight', 'beginning', 'never']"
"['much', 'aware', 'financial', 'personal', 'legal', 'war', 'crime', 'destructive', 'tough', 'crime', 'full', 'third', 'population', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex', 'many', 'possible', 'monetary', 'compensation']"
"['watched', 'news', 'informed']"
['interest']
"['understanding', 'since', 'imprisonment']"
"['living', 'different', 'real']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'vote', 'change', 'way', 'ran']"
"['want', 'better']"
"['look', 'politician', 'might', 'help', 'prison']"
"['become', 'aware', 'race', 'white', 'debt', 'march', 'nation']"
"['since', 'political', 'lot', 'realize', 'offense', 'opportunity', 'reform', 'get', 'systematic', 'governing', 'private', 'businessman', 'profiting']"
"['feel', 'justice', 'system', 'unfair']"
"['accused', 'crime', 'put', 'prison', 'really', 'thinking', 'real', 'someone', 'gains', 'office', 'could', 'cause', 'thing', 'mind', 'money', 'public', 'make', 'new', 'way', 'look', 'good', 'public', 'eye', 'let', 'unscrupulous', 'district', 'look', 'pad', 'conviction', 'rate', 'look', 'good', 'election', 'make', 'life', 'better', 'expense']"
"['hefty', 'ugh']"
"['severe', 'corruption', 'needs', 'removed', 'sheriff', 'police', 'county', 'tax', 'collection', 'official', 'law']"
"['knowledge', 'wisdom', 'lot', 'definitely', 'lot']"
"['yes', 'know', 'government', 'right']"
"['care', 'little', 'person']"
"['understand', 'meeting', 'new']"
"['political', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'never', 'established', 'constitutional', 'applied', 'vis', 'vis', 'ethnic']"
"['finally', 'see', 'jail', 'prison', 'getting', 'different', 'due', 'race', 'background', 'natural']"
"['whole', 'justice', 'system', 'prisoner', 'reformation', 'desperate', 'need', 'reformation', 'say', 'least']"
"['interest', 'prison', 'reform', 'rehabilitation']"
"['see', 'sides', 'sides']"
"['yes', 'see', 'abroad', 'society']"
['informed']
"['learned', 'politics', 'prison', 'actually', 'paying', 'attention', 'never', 'knowledge', 'taking', 'college', 'classes', 'becoming', 'educated', 'prison']"
"['one', 'really', 'get', 'done']"
"['since', 'political', 'fact', 'unaware', 'much', 'matter']"
"['meant', 'answer']"
"['realize', 'voice', 'responsibility', 'involved', 'know', 'going', 'community', 'beyond', 'part', 'make', 'place', 'fellow', 'man']"
"['never', 'one']"
"['twenty', 'five']"
"['become', 'lesser', 'concern', 'since', 'right', 'vote', 'taken', 'away', 'understand', 'voice', 'know', 'matter', 'today', 'world']"
"['law', 'voting']"
"['prior', 'political', 'know', 'anything', 'politics', 'living', 'life', 'came', 'really', 'self', 'absorbed', 'older', 'world', 'whole', 'relevant']"
"['seen', 'put', 'together', 'sex', 'able', 'parole', 'guide', 'ass', 'drug']"
"['know', 'important']"
"['since', 'white', 'nationalist', 'due', 'prison']"
[]
"['think', 'older', 'drug', 'offense', 'get', 'correct', 'treatment']"
"['paying', 'attention']"
['yes']
"['learned', 'due', 'reading']"
"['well', 'used', 'democrat', 'republican']"
"['made', 'realize', 'government', 'care', 'us', 'money']"
"['chance', 'vote', 'would', 'try', 'help', 'change', 'longer', 'term']"
['truth']
"['option', 'also']"
"['aware', 'want', 'voice']"
"['seen', 'nothing', 'injustice', 'corruption']"
"['really', 'understand', 'political', 'view', 'afterwards', 'familiar']"
"['learned', 'justice', 'system', 'crooked', 'really', 'care', 'go', 'threw', 'feel', 'though', 'falsely', 'giving', 'us', 'better', 'help', 'us', 'return', 'world']"
"['always', 'democratic', 'party', 'wise', 'days', 'ever']"
['yes']
"['political', 'view', 'strongly', 'believe', 'everyone', 'right', 'freedom', 'speech', 'matter', 'come', 'current', 'life']"
"['want', 'administration', 'prison', 'reform', 'got', 'allegedly', 'beating', 'man', 'year', 'old', 'daughter', 'never', 'trouble']"
"['wiser', 'humble', 'closer', 'god']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'really', 'think', 'important', 'vote', 'even', 'care', 'going', 'government', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'watch', 'goes', 'know', 'citizen', 'important', 'let', 'want', 'known', 'charge']"
"['actually', 'get', 'sit', 'see', 'world', 'really']"
"['aware', 'need', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['strong', 'bulling']"
"['would', 'agreed', 'would']"
['care']
"['five', 'turned', 'old', 'care', 'voting', 'wrapped', 'dull', 'pain', 'childhood', 'trauma', 'worry', 'political', 'civic', 'minded', 'though', 'prison', 'realize', 'greatly', 'affected', 'political', 'climate', 'spent', 'legal', 'assistant', 'certification', 'law', 'standing', 'civil', 'men', 'like', 'case', 'th', 'circuit', 'court', 'number', 'use', 'unpaid', 'prisoner', 'labor', 'depending', 'source', 'pay', 'labor', 'also', 'lawsuit', 'prison', 'mail', 'policy', 'violative', 'constitution', 'equivalent', 'st', 'amendment', 'came', 'prison', 'even', 'known', 'another', 'man', 'civil']"
"['looking', 'ferry', 'gun']"
"['understand', 'vote', 'like', 'bad', 'condition', 'allow', 'vote', 'since', 'know', 'also']"
"['time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'want', 'office', 'know', 'trying', 'make', 'help', 'get', 'prison', 'help', 'find', 'work', 'housing', 'start', 'new', 'life']"
"['since', 'able', 'keep', 'news', 'look', 'believe', 'bigger', 'picture', 'possible', 'choose', 'represent', 'us']"
"['privilege', 'walk', 'grounds', 'also', 'walk', 'still', 'safety']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'directly']"
['continue']
"['look', 'better']"
"['hustler', 'go', 'make', 'way', 'way', 'racial', 'big', 'prime', 'era', 'serving', 'yes', 'convinced']"
"['everything', 'locked']"
"['realize', 'certain', 'unfair', 'need', 'tobe']"
"['use', 'think', 'keeping', 'assault', 'constitutional', 'right', 'bear', 'arms', 'protect', 'threat', 'really', 'hand', 'gun', 'sufficient', 'enough', 'hell', 'need', 'assault', 'rifle', 'hunt', 'either', 'mass', 'shooting', 'come', 'legally', 'buy', 'acquire', 'proper', 'obtain', 'assault', 'rifle', 'commit', 'heinous']"
"['look', 'president', 'today', 'self']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['policy', 'government', 'affect', 'point', 'view', 'system']"
"['make', 'difference']"
"['registered', 'raised', 'catholic', 'town', 'full', 'staunch', 'formed', 'political', 'bias', 'young', 'age', 'however', 'prison', 'seen', 'republican', 'government', 'take', 'turns']"
"['different', 'mind', 'frame']"
"['president', 'trump', 'taken', 'president', 'see', 'lot', 'disrespect', 'left', 'towards', 'day', 'one', 'regardless', 'president', 'respect', 'rather', 'agree']"
['yes']
[]
"['black', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'feel']"
"['go', 'rest', 'life', 'incarnation']"
"['yes', 'trust', 'politician']"
['career']
"['study', 'history']"
"['watched', 'learned', 'presidency']"
"['see', 'bad', 'justice', 'system']"
['vote']
"['yes', 'look', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'different', 'justice']"
"['yes', 'absolutely', 'best', 'due', 'mature', 'outlook', 'life', 'keep', 'easily', 'persuaded', 'since', 'unnecessary', 'hate', 'towards', 'great', 'president', 'trump', 'done', 'superb', 'job', 'president', 'let', 'come', 'got', 'one', 'nation', 'country', 'support', 'respect', 'president', 'trump']"
"['wish', 'would', 'importance', 'voting']"
"['youth', 'given', 'opportunity', 'focus', 'entirely', 'upon', 'bettering', 'previous', 'formerly', 'lived', 'focus', 'less', 'political', 'unless', 'current', 'position']"
"['leaning', 'democrat', 'sympathize', 'republican']"
['yes']
"['used', 'care', 'much', 'going', 'politics', 'government', 'operating', 'since', 'learned', 'wrong', 'society', 'today', 'lack', 'proper', 'ethical', 'treatment', 'humanity', 'greed']"
"['great', 'need', 'better', 'judicial', 'across', 'country', 'better']"
"['towards', 'less', 'government', 'control']"
"['love', 'country']"
['sure']
"['used', 'say', 'prison', 'second', 'chance', 'system', 'forgive']"
"['made', 'mature', 'going', 'country', 'beyond']"
"['locked', 'immature', 'care', 'locked', 'grown', 'want', 'make', 'difference', 'goes', 'around', 'cant', 'anything', 'helpless', 'country']"
"['suppose', 'pay', 'attention', 'world', 'fact', 'got', 'interesting', 'trump', 'stuff', 'prison', 'focus', 'future', 'beyond', 'mention', 'future']"
"['see', 'new', 'perspective', 'literally', 'metaphorically']"
"['pass', 'understand', 'repercussion', 'put', 'different', 'certain', 'affect', 'life', 'forever', 'law']"
"['since', 'giving', 'life', 'god', 'view', 'lot']"
"['longer', 'support', 'illegal', 'leniency', 'residency', 'status']"
"['poor', 'hard', 'end', 'generational', 'poverty', 'thus', 'reducing', 'generational', 'incarceration']"
"['certain', 'political', 'never', 'applied']"
['yes']
['daily']
"['change', 'actually', 'chance', 'sit', 'really', 'see', 'politics', 'much']"
"['us', 'animal']"
"['relieved', 'world', 'black', 'white', 'prison', 'reform', 'since', 'believe', 'done', 'time', 'need', 'full', 'member', 'society', 'interact', 'world', 'stage', 'nation', 'dying', 'slow', 'death']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'political']"
"['new', 'political']"
"['whole', 'lot', 'different', 'pattern']"
['se']
[]
"['never', 'attention', 'outside']"
"['know', 'side', 'world', 'free', 'lot', 'taken', 'away', 'us', 'made', 'bad', 'decision', 'put', 'make', 'bad', 'person']"
"['need', 'voice']"
"['yes', 'grown', 'interested']"
"['chose', 'yes', 'gotten', 'wiser']"
[]
"['well', 'since', 'incarceration', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'political', 'ways', 'important']"
"['lot', 'one', 'sober', 'think', 'lot', 'think', 'differently', 'way', 'differently']"
['really']
"['well', 'see', 'everything', 'black', 'white', 'make', 'seem']"
"['paying', 'attention']"
['yes']
"['certain', 'garbage']"
"['made', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['came', 'prison', 'staunch', 'democrat', 'tolerant']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'indifferent', 'reason', 'care', 'care', 'deeply', 'personally']"
['know']
"['actually', 'care']"
"['yes', 'drug', 'offender', 'less', 'time', 'never', 'carried', 'violence', 'anyone', 'spent', 'life', 'cause', 'addiction']"
"['self', 'explanatory']"
"['one', 'care', 'locked']"
['yes']
[]
"['far', 'concerned', 'well', 'society', 'well', 'prison']"
"['even', 'affected', 'place', 'complete', 'control']"
"['sit', 'watch']"
"['lime', 'one', 'sided']"
"['attitude', 'lot', 'way', 'carry', 'human', 'care', 'lot', 'tolerate', 'lot', 'ignorance']"
"['aware', 'informed', 'political', 'want', 'active', 'reform', 'get']"
['care']
['family']
"['see', 'many']"
"['would', 'like', 'explain', 'life', 'situation', 'help']"
"['previous', 'democratic', 'party', 'since', 'convinced', 'political', 'process', 'us', 'nothing', 'complex', 'scheme', 'economical', 'military', 'agenda', 'white', 'slave']"
"['look', 'world']"
"['hand', 'view', 'corruption', 'money', 'like', 'unit', 'watched', 'black', 'begging', 'medical', 'assistance', 'watched', 'pain', 'medication', 'surgical', 'given', 'instead', 'legally', 'disabled', 'forced', 'work', 'medication', 'medical', 'care', 'withheld', 'attorney', 'back']"
"['want', 'vote', 'provide', 'rehabilitative', 'mentally']"
[]
"['yes', 'know', 'matter', 'voice', 'responsibility', 'stand', 'future']"
"['think', 'country', 'gone']"
"['judicial', 'system']"
"['past', 'would', 'vote', 'democratic', 'set', 'back', 'listen', 'person', 'speaking', 'instead', 'house', 'party', 'cause', 'mind', 'day', 'really', 'house', 'every', 'self']"
"['since', 'incarceration', 'given', 'life']"
"['someone', 'formed', 'ill', 'informed', 'based', 'try', 'take', 'information', 'issue', 'whole', 'picture']"
"['learned', 'count']"
"['become', 'involved', 'politics']"
"['mostly', 'aged', 'become', 'clear']"
"['never', 'taken', 'time', 'listen', 'going', 'around', 'last', 'time', 'well', 'hearing', 'concerning']"
"['nothing', 'prison']"
"['government', 'going', 'wrong', 'way']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'fact', 'related', 'anyone', 'political', 'money', 'got', 'long', 'sentence', 'yes', 'hire', 'judge', 'court']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'keep', 'news', 'trump', 'really', 'good', 'job']"
"['rich', 'get', 'justice', 'poor', 'go', 'prison', 'property']"
"['order', 'free', 'world', 'society', 'change', 'uprise', 'betterment', 'youth', 'final', 'future']"
"['guess', 'since', 'younger', 'really', 'could', 'careless', 'president', 'united', 'ran', 'office', 'prison', 'grown', 'see', 'everyone', 'future', 'even', 'next', 'generation', 'politics', 'would', 'change', 'better', 'worse']"
"['find', 'self', 'informed', 'today', 'political', 'purpose', 'yes']"
"['need', 'know', 'truth', 'hide', 'prison']"
"['use', 'support', 'democratic', 'party', 'much', 'split']"
"['view', 'politics']"
"['know', 'broken', 'justice', 'system']"
['aware']
['much']
['good']
[]
"['saw', 'man', 'get', 'prison', 'simple', 'possession', 'drug', 'paraphernalia', 'charge', 'stuck', 'attack', 'soon', 'laid', 'intake', 'bag', 'society', 'drug', 'addict', 'system', 'must', 'end']"
"['believe', 'person', 'visit', 'prison', 'united', 'least', 'spent', 'time', 'system', 'actually', 'know', 'go']"
[]
['used']
"['way', 'done']"
"['cause', 'choice']"
"['used', 'think']"
"['watching', 'political', 'understand', 'happening', 'government', 'well', 'going', 'country', 'economy']"
['yes']
"['would', 'never', 'vote', 'democratic', 'reason']"
"['listen', 'watch', 'politics', 'got', 'seeing', 'injustice', 'system', 'firsthand', 'made', 'want', 'learn', 'make']"
['free']
['interested']
"['made', 'lose', 'interest', 'hope', 'politics']"
"['see', 'really', 'political', 'behalf']"
"['raised', 'democrat', 'always', 'thought', 'black', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'strike', 'law', 'prison', 'litigation', 'reform', 'welfare', 'reform', 'entire', 'race']"
['somewhat']
"['done', 'good', 'deal', 'helping', 'see', 'good']"
"['considered', 'libertarian']"
"['turned', 'republican', 'due', 'racism']"
"['one', 'matter', 'know', 'us', 'bull', 'crap', 'going', 'pay']"
"['border', 'terrorist', 'gun', 'control']"
"['lost', 'everything', 'financially', 'time']"
[]
"['really', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'hear', 'see', 'free', 'though', 'made', 'money', 'control']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'going', 'party', 'voting']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['lot', 'time', 'sit', 'watch', 'news', 'get', 'better', 'understanding', 'happening', 'world']"
"['educated', 'rely', 'say', 'look', 'rely', 'someone', 'opinion']"
"['think', 'pay', 'attention', 'goes', 'political', 'class', 'directly', 'effects', 'family']"
"['could', 'vote', 'could', 'make', 'little', 'better']"
"['incarceration', 'care', 'political']"
['money']
['learning']
"['grown', 'understand', 'politics']"
"['world', 'evil']"
[]
"['see', 'corruption', 'actually']"
['way']
['social']
"['victim', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system', 'realize', 'importance', 'justice', 'reform', 'state']"
"['realize', 'charge', 'make', 'better', 'worse']"
['yes']
"['used', 'think', 'prison', 'could', 'vote', 'feel', 'lot', 'different']"
"['see', 'question']"
"['answer', 'last', 'essay']"
"['want', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'better']"
"['yes', 'matter', 'race', 'believe', 'deserved', 'vote', 'life', 'ways', 'educated', 'life', 'teach', 'said', 'feel', 'vote', 'point', 'important', 'one', 'may', 'different', 'life', 'may']"
"['really', 'sit', 'stop', 'long', 'enough', 'really', 'think', 'happening', 'around', 'world', 'god', 'sat', 'work', 'see', 'going', 'around', 'learned', 'whole', 'lot', 'live', 'world', 'live', 'make', 'brokenness', 'determine', 'come']"
"['trump', 'taken', 'office', 'sense']"
"['feel', 'president', 'leading', 'us', 'toward', 'world', 'war']"
"['less', 'liberal']"
"['libertarian', 'anyway', 'greater', 'understanding', 'political', 'lens']"
"['realizing', 'vote', 'would', 'inspired', 'try', 'get', 'back', 'vote']"
['sure']
['see']
"['parole', 'board', 'keeping', 'us', 'away', 'family', 'court', 'parole', 'rolling', 'prison']"
['aware']
"['yes', 'want', 'someone', 'office', 'care', 'make', 'change', 'prison', 'reform', 'justice', 'system']"
"['convinced', 'republican', 'ways', 'better']"
"['yes', 'used', 'republican', 'since', 'trump', 'took', 'office']"
"['made', 'feel', 'like', 'left', 'without', 'voice', 'politics', 'formed', 'formed', 'world', 'us', 'live']"
['yep']
"['since', 'president', 'openly', 'reason', 'terrorist', 'openly', 'singles', 'black', 'going', 'start', 'something', 'going', 'destroy', 'majority', 'gas', 'small', 'especially', 'many', 'live', 'inside', 'think', 'night', 'sleeping', 'building', 'gas', 'connected', 'use', 'foreign', 'telling', 'nice', 'chunk', 'gas', 'lot', 'burning', 'decide', 'start', 'saying']"
"['get', 'talk', 'like']"
"['yes', 'majority', 'president', 'since', 'presidential', 'division', 'society', 'made', 'normal', 'lie', 'play', 'blame', 'shift', 'game', 'operate', 'position', 'double', 'self', 'awareness', 'reason', 'simple', 'used', 'grown', 'become', 'wise', 'certain', 'automatically', 'added']"
"['become', 'liberal']"
"['hand', 'bench', 'brick', 'try', 'urgency']"
"['nobody', 'ever', 'anything']"
"['election', 'watched', 'media', 'tell', 'one', 'lie', 'another', 'watched', 'media', 'get', 'insane', 'passing', 'day', 'refuse', 'accept', 'lost', 'never', 'political', 'fact', 'could', 'told', 'difference', 'democratic', 'republican', 'far', 'tell', 'term', 'democratic', 'dangerous', 'mental', 'disorder']"
"['governing', 'addiction', 'drug', 'education', 'however', 'drug', 'thrown', 'prison', 'harder', 'time', 'getting', 'sex', 'offender']"
['human']
"['help', 'fight', 'crime']"
"['since', 'become', 'informed', 'concerned', 'direction', 'country', 'heading']"
"['came', 'prison', 'never', 'really', 'put', 'lot', 'effort', 'politics', 'time', 'really', 'see', 'work', 'understand', 'prison', 'industry', 'politics']"
"['big', 'political', 'person', 'free']"
['governor']
"['yes', 'see', 'running', 'country']"
"['criminal', 'could', 'always', 'lot', 'conservative', 'per', 'say']"
"['reason', 'feel', 'getting', 'harder', 'lockup']"
"['yes', 'think', 'hold', 'office', 'need', 'job']"
[]
"['much', 'us']"
"['want', 'able', 'vote', 'able', 'say']"
['care']
"['reading', 'lot', 'feel', 'like', 'whoever', 'create', 'help', 'debt', 'charge']"
"['want', 'voice', 'fairness', 'criminal']"
"['yes', 'subjected', 'prison', 'civil', 'think', 'prison', 'effects', 'prison', 'release']"
"['way', 'thinking']"
['known']
"['interested', 'politics', 'care', 'community', 'want', 'positive', 'productive', 'member', 'society', 'day', 'care', 'world', 'especially', 'country']"
"['government', 'clue', 'less', 'reform']"
"['watching', 'news']"
"['way', 'government']"
"['vote', 'would', 'love', 'interest']"
"['educated', 'view']"
"['victim', 'corrupted', 'justice', 'system', 'realize', 'important', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'see', 'country']"
[]
"['little', 'aware']"
"['follow', 'political', 'since', 'however', 'feel', 'like', 'felon', 'say']"
"['never', 'many', 'needlessly', 'realize', 'much', 'racism', 'hatred', 'toward', 'little', 'know', 'much', 'human', 'taken', 'country']"
"['attention', 'going', 'never', 'really', 'much', 'felon', 'right', 'right']"
"['used', 'think', 'vote', 'matter', 'one', 'bit', 'rich', 'want', 'someone', 'office', 'matter', 'many', 'little', 'still', 'going', 'put', 'want', 'office', 'regardless', 'unjustly', 'mainly', 'opinion', 'want', 'express', 'ever', 'whole', 'entire', 'life', 'taken', 'twice', 'man', 'life', 'taking', 'lost', 'father', 'cancer', 'lost', 'nd', 'husband', 'massive', 'heart', 'attack', 'sleep', 'job', 'work', 'much', 'need', 'try', 'correct', 'life', 'need', 'say', 'family', 'person', 'may', 'may', 'voice', 'freedom', 'hopefully', 'soon', 'resourceful']"
"['used', 'interest', 'politics', 'mainly', 'see', 'half', 'belong', 'behind', 'way', 'effect', 'many', 'mine', 'many']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['learned', 'lower', 'class', 'chosen', 'live', 'way', 'reason', 'racial']"
"['think', 'president', 'trump', 'economic', 'growth', 'great', 'deal']"
"['never', 'know', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'matter', 'vote', 'tell', 'think', 'want', 'hear', 'presidential', 'race', 'lie', 'important', 'vote', 'actuality', 'little', 'last', 'election', 'received', 'popular', 'trump', 'electoral', 'college', 'trump', 'tell', 'even', 'come', 'stand', 'rain', 'freezing', 'weather', 'president', 'still', 'going']"
"['want', 'freedom']"
"['yes', 'like', 'expressed']"
"['situation', 'still', 'confused']"
"['would', 'like', 'help', 'find', 'better', 'way', 'help', 'stay']"
"['new', 'political']"
"['need', 'help', 'outside', 'source', 'state']"
"['care', 'aware', 'going']"
"['never', 'much', 'politics', 'stuck', 'prison', 'dealing', 'parole', 'offender', 'nice', 'keep', 'trying', 'find', 'help', 'well', 'deserve', 'get', 'help', 'need', 'seen', 'far', 'much', 'voice', 'comes', 'political', 'standpoint']"
[]
"['honest', 'prison', 'never', 'thought', 'political', 'effects', 'daily', 'life']"
"['prison', 'keep', 'giving', 'year', 'keep', 'get', 'money', 'tink', 'need', 'law', 'let', 'date', 'comes', 'give', 'year', 'keep', 'prison']"
"['want', 'apart', 'society']"
['attention']
"['attention', 'government', 'going', 'world', 'side']"
"['really', 'matter', 'pick', 'ever', 'want', 'office']"
"['never', 'knew', 'revolving', 'door', 'know', 'parole', 'set', 'fail', 'system']"
"['given', 'opportunity', 'knowledge', 'civic', 'duty']"
"['one', 'day', 'get', 'bite']"
"['made', 'see', 'country', 'feel']"
"['learned', 'different']"
"['president', 'parole', 'matter', 'back', 'ground']"
"['become', 'interested', 'feel', 'become', 'affected']"
"['feel', 'opinion', 'drug', 'considered', 'worst', 'sex']"
"['yes', 'open']"
['mad']
['matter']
"['yes', 'never', 'get', 'involved', 'election', 'fill', 'election', 'sheriff', 'would']"
"['exposed', 'true', 'nature', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'actually', 'platform', 'win', 'never', 'actually', 'upon', 'back', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex']"
"['well', 'use', 'care']"
['interest']
['change']
"['pay', 'attention']"
[]
"['really', 'get', 'see', 'going', 'world']"
"['seeing', 'real', 'damage', 'politics', 'country']"
"['yes', 'painfully', 'aware', 'impact', 'lack', 'effects', 'us']"
"['understand', 'use']"
"['lot', 'need', 'made', 'system', 'even', 'listen', 'point', 'view', 'system', 'know', 'good', 'much', 'less', 'improve']"
"['seen', 'front', 'crooked']"
"['trump', 'care', 'watching', 'trump', 'everyone', 'needs', 'care', 'cause']"
['tuff']
"['see', 'lot', 'stuff', 'see']"
"['aware', 'much', 'politics', 'roll', 'life', 'individually', 'like', 'never']"
[]
[]
[]
"['mainly', 'simple', 'fact', 'actually', 'watching', 'news', 'distracted', 'work', 'paying', 'social', 'really', 'thankful', 'along', 'aware', 'political', 'country', 'also', 'aware', 'self', 'working', 'prison', 'actually', 'great', 'opportunity', 'done', 'right', 'right', 'would', 'guess', 'even', 'inmate', 'population', 'actually', 'getting', 'anything', 'another', 'full', 'potential', 'possible', 'course', 'want', 'truly', 'best']"
[]
"['incarceration', 'needs', 'closely']"
['pay']
"['would', 'like', 'someone', 'stand', 'right', 'think', 'person', 'unless', 'crime', 'murder', 'rape']"
"['keep', 'much', 'news', 'see', 'every', 'opinion', 'important', 'country', 'needs']"
"['kind', 'hate', 'country', 'drug', 'rather', 'give', 'us', 'actual', 'treatment', 'country', 'money', 'tax', 'income', 'fix', 'anything', 'locked', 'away', 'petty', 'drug', 'crime', 'surrounded', 'worse', 'taught', 'made', 'new', 'drug', 'addiction', 'still', 'left', 'untreated']"
"['see', 'damage', 'nation']"
"['realizing', 'working', 'together', 'unit', 'get', 'accomplished', 'pace', 'power']"
"['like', 'need', 'help', 'prison']"
"['hard', 'time', 'power', 'right']"
"['since', 'lots', 'time', 'propaganda', 'discuss', 'like', 'indulge', 'time', 'law', 'library', 'know', 'would', 'never', 'plead', 'guilty', 'bully', 'us', 'undermine', 'us', 'us', 'lots', 'prison', 'time', 'make', 'conviction', 'rate', 'go']"
"['come', 'attention', 'care', 'money']"
"['face', 'ugly', 'fact', 'well', 'cost', 'financial', 'gain', 'take', 'precedence', 'right', 'wrong', 'politics', 'shorter', 'definition', 'smoke']"
['science']
"['justice', 'reform']"
"['lot', 'aware']"
"['never', 'attention', 'tell', 'bad', 'country', 'danger']"
"['yes', 'right']"
"['see', 'totally', 'sober', 'view', 'instead', 'high']"
['world']
"['never', 'yes']"
"['tired', 'seeing', 'country', 'way']"
['yes']
[]
"['way', 'system', 'ran']"
"['yes', 'naive', 'incarceration', 'care']"
"['yes', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'must', 'change', 'better', 'business', 'designed', 'remove', 'without', 'voice', 'use']"
"['republican', 'since', 'see', 'divisive', 'republican', 'party', 'progressive', 'united', 'party']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'need', 'reform', 'prison', 'rehabilitation', 'advantage']"
"['well', 'general', 'pretty', 'consistent', 'specific', 'largely']"
[]
"['used', 'totally', 'democratic', 'thinking', 'three', 'plus', 'incarceration', 'middle', 'like', 'republican']"
[]
"['yes', 'absolutely', 'never', 'political', 'prior', 'wrongful', 'unjust', 'conviction', 'multiple', 'life', 'life', 'political', 'fighting', 'system', 'behalf', 'unjust']"
"['well', 'locked', 'focus', 'politics', 'jail']"
"['well', 'get', 'told', 'happen', 'arent', 'said', 'like', 'really', 'time', 'dont', 'stand']"
"['yes', 'due']"
"['shouldnt', 'double', 'jeopardy', 'taken', 'care', 'ago', 'county', 'needs', 'pay', 'jail', 'courthouse', 'illegal', 'civil', 'attorney', 'teach', 'county', 'lesson', 'currently', 'media', 'posting', 'social', 'media', 'support']"
['yes']
['sure']
['se']
"['yes', 'get']"
"['yes', 'vote', 'since']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['injustice', 'done', 'inside']"
"['yeah', 'always', 'get', 'end', 'stick', 'like', 'saying', 'goes', 'hill', 'hill']"
"['yes', 'got', 'black', 'guy']"
"['feel', 'like', 'important', 'part', 'country']"
"['well', 'yes', 'used', 'think', 'trump', 'good', 'president', 'reading', 'newspaper', 'think', 'office']"
"['well', 'open', 'involved', 'news', 'days', 'think', 'got', 'say', 'matter', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'got', 'poss', 'firearm', 'charge', 'fault', 'walking', 'store', 'bread', 'neighborhood', 'get']"
"['become', 'far', 'less', 'trusting', 'establishment', 'seeing', 'truly', 'broken', 'corrupt', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'comes', 'someone', 'used', 'immense', 'faith', 'entire', 'system', 'worked', 'politics']"
[]
"['know', 'educated']"
['socialist']
['way']
"['um', 'see']"
"['seeing', 'hearing', 'two', 'different', 'live', 'tell', 'easy']"
"['corruption', 'violence', 'amongst', 'police', 'much', 'reform', 'much', 'education']"
"['seeing', 'everything', 'thats', 'happening']"
['nope']
['better']
"['set', 'say']"
"['seeing', 'hand', 'system', 'affecting', 'society']"
['health']
"['pro', 'went', 'jail']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['way', 'news', 'president', 'take', 'favoritism', 'certain', 'party', 'whether', 'republican', 'democratic']"
"['jail', 'dont', 'thing', 'like', 'hear', 'watch', 'streets']"
"['feel', 'like']"
"['prison', 'waste', 'human', 'half', 'drug', 'given', 'chance', 'treatment']"
"['looking', 'news']"
"['involved', 'aware', 'time', 'read', 'view', 'information', 'concerning', 'politics', 'running', 'different', 'thought', 'process', 'time', 'involved', 'active']"
[]
"['get', 'different', 'view', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'given', 'ability', 'see', 'inside', 'tax', 'lied', 'gain', 'wouldnt', 'werent', 'propaganda', 'fed', 'therefore', 'causing', 'make', 'allow', 'otherwise', 'wouldnt']"
"['jail', 'informed', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'read', 'paper', 'much', 'possible', 'like', 'know', 'whats', 'going']"
"['well', 'since', 'number', 'dont', 'agree']"
['love']
"['become', 'aware', 'interested', 'politics', 'since']"
"['think', 'concerning', 'counter', 'intuitive', 'ab', 'made', 'prison', 'mean', 'going', 'prison', 'getting', 'time', 'serious', 'turn', 'less', 'actual', 'time']"
"['see', 'different', 'view']"
"['longer', 'feel', 'live', 'dream', 'record', 'college', 'education', 'useless', 'future', 'employment', 'court', 'result', 'feel', 'like', 'must', 'try', 'find', 'peace', 'world', 'unable', 'prosper']"
['peace']
"['feel', 'everyone', 'right', 'vote', 'prison', 'county', 'would', 'full', 'prison', 'jail', 'system', 'would', 'want', 'vote']"
"['need', 'care', 'reform']"
"['incarceration', 'many', 'rehabilitation', 'immigration', 'control', 'education', 'work', 'housing']"
[]
[]
"['prison', 'jail', 'apparent', 'mass', 'effect', 'one', 'state', 'plus', 'sad', 'see', 'send', 'away', 'got', 'hurt']"
"['eat', 'get', 'bigger', 'grow']"
"['well', 'want', 'know', 'change', 'judicial', 'system']"
"['thinking', 'voting', 'big', 'thing', 'system', 'need', 'experience', 'average', 'person', 'knowledge', 'power', 'experience', 'change']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'effect', 'part', 'wish', 'opinion']"
"['yes', 'want', 'important']"
['know']
"['made', 'want', 'vote']"
"['look', 'world']"
"['dont', 'give', 'us']"
"['open', 'correction', 'court', 'system', 'public', 'made', 'aware', 'unjust', 'system']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'need', 'support', 'protect']"
"['minor', 'got', 'locked', 'us', 'think', 'government', 'legal', 'system', 'help', 'serve', 'justice', 'help', 'keep', 'white', 'rich', 'safe', 'get', 'rid', 'white', 'poor', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['well', 'part', 'need', 'unite', 'one', 'leadership', 'needs', 'racial', 'bias', 'need', 'leadership']"
['many']
"['watching', 'news']"
"['political', 'would', 'say', 'grown', 'instead', 'see', 'streets', 'busy', 'read', 'news', 'paper', 'watch', 'news', 'aware', 'happening', 'world']"
"['good', 'good', 'regardless']"
"['used', 'think', 'like', 'younger', 'got', 'older', 'conservative', 'believe', 'came', 'maturity']"
"['many', 'without']"
"['trump', 'helping', 'stuff', 'talk']"
"['always', 'thought', 'republican', 'see', 'news', 'democrat']"
[]
"['us', 'petty']"
[]
"['much', 'bigger', 'appreciation', 'good', 'impact', 'direction', 'country', 'moving']"
"['money', 'stability', 'realize', 'lack', 'important', 'supporting', 'democrat']"
"['yes', 'misconduct', 'local', 'judicial', 'system', 'manage', 'may', 'going', 'prison', 'rather', 'heinous', 'crime', 'commit', 'spent', 'days', 'jail', 'given', 'deal', 'get', 'deal', 'wave', 'day', 'spent', 'would', 'give', 'credit', 'time', 'whopping', 'days', 'wave', 'days', 'plead', 'guilty', 'something', 'didnt', 'year', 'person', 'ready', 'get', 'jail', 'almost', 'cost', 'told', 'plead', 'guilty', 'get', 'time', 'probation', 'attorney', 'said', 'court', 'room', 'deal', 'little', 'know', 'get', 'probation', 'going', 'attend', 'classes', 'among', 'class', 'somewhere', 'week', 'range', 'almost', 'year', 'expensive', 'cost', 'almost', 'week']"
"['seen', 'system', 'targeted', 'would', 'like', 'vote', 'political']"
"['didnt', 'pay', 'politics', 'attention']"
"['seem', 'legal', 'system', 'work', 'poor', 'certain']"
"['well', 'given', 'inside', 'view', 'judicial', 'jail', 'prison', 'worst', 'like', 'within', 'inadequate', 'medical', 'mental', 'health', 'treatment', 'officer', 'misconduct', 'inadequate', 'administrative', 'grievance', 'process', 'finally', 'exhausting', 'administrative', 'pursue', 'litigation', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'hear', 'truth', 'face', 'deception', 'call']"
"['dont', 'realize', 'taken', 'away', 'jail', 'make', 'realize']"
"['decide', 'applied', 'dont', 'understand', 'much', 'put']"
"['way', 'interest', 'politics']"
"['much', 'younger', 'use', 'say', 'give', 'crap', 'world', 'effect', 'use', 'say', 'stuff', 'like', 'dont', 'care', 'matter', 'still', 'animal', 'cage', 'world', 'go', 'hell', 'id', 'still', 'prison', 'still', 'wake', 'still', 'wake', 'way', 'breakfast', 'cold', 'lumpy', 'bag', 'lunch', 'every', 'day', 'would', 'never', 'change', 'even', 'world', 'fire', 'would', 'got', 'said', 'like', 'going', 'take', 'prison', 'going', 'put', 'weight', 'pile', 'back']"
"['yes', 'arent', 'fair', 'dont', 'agree', 'life', 'death', 'life']"
"['far', 'left', 'taken', 'moderate', 'left', 'wing', 'bullying', 'deceit', 'little', 'survey', 'tactic', 'box', 'increase', 'side', 'potential', 'remain', 'ignorant']"
['greatly']
"['many', 'innocent', 'justice', 'system']"
"['reason', 'gun', 'control']"
"['dont', 'matter', 'look', 'girl', 'got', 'mor', 'still', 'got', 'go', 'whit']"
"['trump', 'race', 'trading', 'tried', 'put', 'death', 'row', 'punk', 'ass', 'bitch']"
[]
"['yes', 'know', 'voting', 'new', 'props', 'get', 'let', 'sooner', 'petty']"
"['system', 'right']"
"['probation', 'parole', 'make', 'productive', 'member']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'supporting', 'cant', 'anything', 'wish', 'could', 'vote', 'jail']"
"['made', 'aware', 'much', 'struggle', 'socially']"
"['trump', 'worst', 'person', 'president', 'ever']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'kept', 'watching', 'news', 'daily', 'know', 'regarding']"
"['come', 'realization', 'important', 'society', 'let', 'voice', 'political', 'government']"
"['lot', 'happen', 'almost', 'everyday', 'law', 'sometimes', 'affect', 'wether', 'good', 'bad']"
"['came', 'republican', 'middle', 'class', 'ant', 'fell', 'stigma', 'thats', 'party', 'would', 'best', 'mind', 'longer', 'think', 'like', 'become', 'involved', 'dont', 'listen', 'one', 'sided', 'news', 'support', 'identify', 'make', 'beleave', 'move', 'next', 'generation', 'like']"
"['yes', 'lack', 'voting', 'feel', 'country', 'prior', 'made']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really']"
"['want', 'justice']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'like', 'dont', 'care']"
"['yes', 'found', 'unfair', 'justice', 'unequal', 'court', 'white']"
"['way', 'hinder', 'us']"
"['getting', 'older', 'expand', 'mind', 'comes', 'politics', 'realize', 'welfare', 'look', 'trump']"
"['locked', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'whats', 'goes', 'world', 'get', 'make', 'point']"
"['important', 'since']"
"['become', 'aware', 'concerned', 'aspect', 'incarceration', 'want', 'know', 'large', 'scale', 'fail', 'many', 'obviously', 'done', 'change', 'ever', 'present', 'revolving', 'door', 'effect', 'everyone', 'met', 'stuck', 'like']"
"['felon', 'since', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'could', 'vote', 'may', 'able', 'vote', 'one', 'day', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'politically']"
[]
"['better', 'man']"
['give']
"['hate', 'government']"
"['number', 'locked', 'house', 'trying', 'help', 'pay', 'little', 'mind', 'news']"
['news']
"['justice', 'system', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system', 'made', 'greedy', 'money', 'state', 'want', 'make', 'money', 'line']"
"['great', 'state', 'time', 'mile', 'going', 'school']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['political', 'change', 'thing', 'well', 'crime', 'never', 'court', 'given', 'life', 'disregard', 'god', 'allow', 'abortion', 'keep', 'public', 'assistance', 'homeless', 'democratic', 'hell', 'nancy', 'cortez', 'democrat', 'cancer', 'say', 'need', 'available', 'good', 'hourly', 'wage', 'homeless', 'border', 'starve', 'us', 'us', 'back', 'us', 'prison', 'reform', 'making', 'easier', 'long', 'term', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'freedom', 'abortion', 'become', 'somewhat', 'illegal', 'said', 'god', 'bless']"
"['feel', 'politics', 'far', 'impact', 'life', 'freedom']"
"['yes', 'think', 'pertain', 'come', 'much', 'general', 'thing']"
"['see', 'hand', 'voice', 'silenced', 'belive', 'prison', 'population', 'would', 'equal', 'would', 'vote', 'towards', 'unholy', 'kingdom']"
"['yes', 'following', 'news', 'since', 'jail']"
"['paying', 'closer', 'attention', 'world']"
"['current', 'president', 'chamber', 'advocate', 'trump', 'icon']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'happening', 'country', 'state', 'federal', 'county', 'city', 'fix', 'country', 'still', 'much', 'racism', 'exist', 'country', 'government']"
"['repeated', 'offender', 'strike', 'self', 'defence', 'men', 'tried', 'rape', 'self', 'defence', 'law', 'victim', 'sexual', 'domestic', 'respond', 'society', 'much', 'different', 'one', 'victim', 'experienced', 'life', 'time', 'old']"
"['never', 'thus', 'never', 'concerned', 'political', 'regarding', 'prison', 'rehabilitation', 'currently', 'jail', 'concern', 'political', 'awaken', 'make', 'seen', 'party', 'showing', 'concern', 'recidivism']"
['treatment']
"['yes', 'get', 'effect', 'us', 'well', 'family', 'understand', 'broken', 'law', 'however', 'broken', 'law', 'effect', 'us', 'rest', 'life', 'bettering', 'well', 'paying', 'get', 'back', 'citizen', 'beautiful', 'country', 'pay', 'help', 'make', 'help', 'better', 'country', 'would', 'know', 'better', 'someone', 'bottom']"
"['use', 'care', 'political', 'drama', 'since', 'last', 'incarceration', 'taking', 'interest']"
"['sent', 'state', 'prison', 'local', 'ten', 'without', 'proper', 'ways', 'house', 'us', 'education', 'ways', 'get', 'personally', 'think', 'even', 'yrs', 'local', 'jail', 'right', 'make', 'education', 'local', 'prison', 'term', 'treatment', 'state', 'prison', 'us', 'gate', 'money', 'us', 'nothing']"
"['getting', 'better']"
['maybe']
"['get', 'see', 'hand', 'carelessness']"
"['like', 'said', 'law', 'made']"
"['never', 'use', 'care']"
"['wont', 'voice']"
"['think', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'major', 'process', 'hand', 'moderately', 'aware', 'see', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'power', 'loop', 'justify', 'shady', 'tactics', 'maximize', 'conviction', 'problem', 'led', 'early', 'actually', 'dangerous', 'paying', 'price', 'swelling', 'prison']"
"['si', 'para']"
"['well', 'feel', 'since', 'vote', 'wont', 'count', 'much']"
"['yes', 'politics', 'variety', 'politics', 'racial']"
"['hurt', 'stole', 'one', 'person', 'wronged', 'free']"
"['example', 'trump', 'went', 'office', 'stock', 'market', 'dow', 'went', 'everything', 'except', 'many', 'size', 'fit', 'inside', 'state', 'prison', 'money', 'become', 'slave', 'thing', 'reform', 'blind', 'justice']"
"['reason', 'based', 'fresno', 'county', 'want', 'make', 'valley', 'men', 'sick', 'tired', 'like', 'suspect', 'ex', 'made', 'poor', 'feel', 'lot', 'men', 'spot']"
"['get', 'different', 'side', 'story', 'overall', 'decision']"
"['many', 'happening', 'little', 'say', 'president', 'pay', 'attention', 'ower', 'thats', 'going', 'around', 'eye', 'sky', 'use', 'correctly']"
['yes']
"['dont', 'us', 'best', 'heart']"
"['well', 'thing', 'wrong']"
"['way', 'system', 'correctional', 'treat', 'inmate', 'poorly', 'un', 'shouldnt', 'aloud']"
"['need', 'gang', 'task']"
"['care', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['would', 'take', 'way', 'long', 'answer', 'dont', 'feel', 'like', 'answer', 'come', 'talk']"
"['wasnt', 'prison', 'racist', 'black', 'community', 'ironically', 'race', 'predominately', 'hung', 'become', 'left', 'wing', 'republican', 'trump', 'country', 'country', 'dont', 'migrate', 'make', 'change', 'demand', 'natural', 'born', 'citizen', 'legitimate', 'want', 'live', 'accept', 'stay', 'simple']"
"['yes', 'static', 'like', 'felon', 'voter']"
"['yes', 'point', 'judicial', 'system', 'corrupt', 'ways', 'especially', 'county', 'quick', 'judge', 'physical', 'evidence']"
"['change', 'thing', 'big', 'business', 'money']"
"['like', 'join', 'one', 'race', 'thats', 'political']"
"['attention', 'whats', 'politicly']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'part', 'system']"
"['younger', 'lean', 'towards', 'republican']"
[]
[]
"['see', 'self', 'whats', 'going', 'behind', 'wall', 'prison', 'better', 'time', 'green', 'wall', 'cop', 'prison', 'gang']"
"['believe', 'prison', 'reform', 'happen', 'many', 'locked']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'much']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'much']"
"['educated', 'justice', 'system', 'court', 'took', 'inmate', 'side', 'understand', 'reality', 'lack', 'education', 'unjustice', 'balance', 'fall', 'upon', 'population', 'arn', 'aware', 'conduct', 'stop', 'court', 'know', 'knowledge', 'power', 'likely', 'court']"
"['president', 'got']"
[]
"['better', 'light']"
"['see', 'crooked', 'place', 'really']"
"['justice', 'unfair']"
"['due', 'housing']"
"['well', 'dont', 'know', 'answer']"
"['time', 'see', 'hand', 'fairness', 'unfairness', 'make', 'want', 'part', 'make']"
"['much', 'build']"
['sure']
[]
"['yes', 'justice']"
"['think', 'outdated', 'need', 'times']"
"['yes', 'immensely', 'ashamed', 'embarrassed', 'justice', 'system', 'police', 'department', 'public', 'defender', 'office', 'downright', 'pathetic', 'unprofessional', 'conduct', 'disregard', 'constitutional', 'human', 'become', 'horrible', 'joke', 'close', 'humorous']"
"['believe', 'needs', 'someone', 'doc', 'fair', 'example', 'offender', 'prison', 'fire', 'came', 'offender', 'prison', 'term', 'county', 'jail', 'fire', 'camp', 'even', 'make', 'sence', 'fire', 'camp', 'time', 'willing', 'learn', 'change', 'program', 'county', 'jail', 'prison', 'term']"
[]
['informed']
"['always', 'told', 'aloud', 'vote']"
"['seeing', 'amount', 'getting', 'serving', 'time', 'minor', 'parole', 'probation', 'made', 'question', 'whole', 'justice']"
"['need', 'vote', 'end']"
[]
"['awaken', 'understanding', 'judicial', 'system', 'cruel', 'unusual', 'punishment', 'locked', 'cell', 'hours', 'hour', 'crime', 'commit', 'reason', 'scare', 'tactics', 'used', 'interest', 'better', 'county', 'conviction', 'rate', 'know', 'criminal']"
"['feel', 'less', 'vote', 'feel', 'like', 'outcast']"
"['change', 'somewhat']"
['interested']
['way']
"['long', 'ti', 'older', 'suppose']"
"['yes', 'need', 'stop', 'drug', 'time', 'jail', 'seen', 'many', 'needs', 'change']"
"['yes', 'political', 'since', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'relax', 'take', 'everything', 'thought']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'try', 'break', 'say', 'jail', 'like', 'everyone', 'helpless', 'treat', 'us', 'like', 'shelter', 'hurt']"
[]
"['least', 'slightly', 'different', 'world']"
['system']
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'believe', 'every', 'vote', 'count', 'citizen', 'united']"
"['ignorant', 'prior', 'incarceration']"
"['seem', 'care', 'much', 'public']"
['yes']
"['think', 'political', 'candidate', 'say', 'feel', 'safe', 'need', 'authentic', 'leadership', 'make', 'radical', 'prepare', 'navigate']"
"['outlook', 'life', 'always', 'much', 'politics', 'trump', 'person', 'politician', 'identify']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'used', 'believe', 'deserved', 'prison', 'know', 'result', 'government', 'system', 'poor', 'poverty', 'lack', 'social', 'moral', 'factor', 'become']"
"['yes', 'college', 'learnt', 'lot', 'help', 'develop', 'depth', 'look', 'life']"
"['yes', 'democrat', 'recently', 'read', 'joe', 'view', 'crime', 'really', 'hurt']"
"['yes', 'took', 'civic', 'course', 'second', 'chance', 'alliance', 'discovered', 'branch', 'government', 'work', 'favor', 'profit']"
"['yes', 'much', 'politics', 'affect', 'life']"
[]
"['pay', 'attention', 'social']"
"['used', 'think', 'politics', 'play', 'big', 'role', 'see', 'watching', 'news', 'following', 'politics', 'change', 'different', 'voting', 'sessions', 'whether', 'state', 'federal', 'national']"
"['yes', 'learned', 'read', 'observe', 'study', 'politics', 'especially', 'process', 'impeachment']"
"['yes', 'felt', 'good', 'country', 'got', 'caught', 'system', 'see', 'work', 'much', 'different', 'days']"
"['yes', 'lot', 'tribal', 'affected', 'democratic', 'republican', 'party', 'discriminate', 'red', 'race', 'religion', 'comprehend', 'red', 'human', 'taught']"
[]
"['yes', 'accountable']"
"['yes', 'political', 'education', 'higher', 'moral', 'religious', 'belief', 'system', 'see', 'attached', 'page', 'addition', 'letter', 'political', 'herein']"
"['yes', 'trust', 'never', 'live', 'say', 'going', 'black', 'truly', 'obsolete']"
"['would', 'like', 'vote', 'yes', 'commit', 'stop']"
"['yes', 'time', 'listen', 'conduct', 'personal', 'analysis', 'real']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'different', 'still', 'barely', 'understand', 'constitution']"
"['yes', 'able', 'see', 'lot', 'deceptive', 'life', 'sides', 'today']"
"['long', 'story']"
"['yes', 'left', 'politics', 'alone', 'outside', 'lack', 'understanding', 'time', 'learn', 'great', 'deal', 'work', 'always', 'betterment']"
[]
"['yes', 'generally', 'based', 'experience', 'information', 'prison', 'experience', 'enlightening', 'revealing']"
"['yes', 'got', 'politically', 'uninvolved', 'realize', 'voting', 'right', 'upon', 'hinge']"
"['yes', 'learn', 'political', 'policy', 'procedure', 'power', 'dictate', 'world']"
"['yes', 'tend', 'highly', 'favor', 'stand']"
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'gave', 'idea', 'political', 'reformist', 'society', 'wronged', 'know', 'innocent', 'men', 'past']"
"['yes', 'time', 'see', 'read', 'pay', 'attention', 'streets', 'got', 'educated', 'political', 'world']"
[]
"['yes', 'listen', 'variety', 'news', 'talk', 'every', 'day', 'sometimes', 'day', 'dishonest', 'liberal', 'media', 'agenda', 'incredibly', 'unfair', 'filter', 'bias', 'order', 'learn', 'whole', 'story']"
"['yes', 'close', 'attention', 'government']"
"['yes', 'time', 'made', 'optimistic', 'open', 'new']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'corruption', 'self', 'serving', 'whole', 'new', 'light', 'see', 'clearly', 'blur']"
"['care', 'rich', 'poor']"
"['experience', 'treatment', 'tell', 'done', 'help', 'inside', 'outside']"
[]
"['yes', 'liberal', 'democrat', 'liberal', 'republican']"
"['yes', 'learning', 'politics']"
[]
"['yes', 'mind', 'us', 'prison', 'need', 'parole', 'prison', 'soon']"
[]
"['catholic', 'cannot', 'support', 'abortion', 'death', 'penalty', 'reason', 'devout', 'faith']"
"['yes', 'want', 'become', 'involved', 'political']"
"['yes', 'ignorance', 'huge', 'issue', 'see', 'us', 'scum', 'earth', 'stay', 'behind', 'change', 'political']"
"['locked', 'care', 'really', 'take', 'depth', 'look', 'uncover', 'done', 'said', 'legal', 'political', 'view', 'actually', 'going', 'prison', 'system', 'huge', 'black', 'market']"
"['yes', 'trump', 'time', 'prison', 'would', 'help', 'get', 'mind', 'right']"
[]
"['yes', 'racial', 'bias', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'state']"
"['yes', 'got', 'locked', 'old', 'unlearned', 'know', 'better']"
"['feeling', 'need', 'voice', 'opinion', 'society', 'opinion', 'matter']"
"['know', 'true', 'life', 'know', 'need', 'help', 'change', 'young', 'killing', 'self', 'need', 'help', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'justice', 'system']"
"['yes', 'think', 'reform', 'system']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'wish', 'taken', 'participation', 'local', 'election', 'came', 'state', 'well', 'sheriff']"
"['yes', 'conservative', 'liberal', 'since', 'entangled', 'legal', 'system', 'specific', 'believe', 'conservative', 'criminal', 'justice', 'misguided', 'also', 'representative', 'majority', 'especially', 'true']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'want', 'stand', 'little', 'man', 'speak', 'make', 'difference', 'system', 'truth', 'truth', 'hear', 'say']"
"['yes', 'longer', 'trust', 'government', 'function', 'low', 'level', 'consciousness', 'devoid', 'love', 'frank', 'see', 'framed', 'twice', 'prison', 'since', 'innocent', 'denial', 'see', 'attached', 'article', 'go']"
"['used', 'feel', 'seen', 'proof', 'lately']"
"['nobody', 'care', 'even', 'person', 'everything', 'find', 'way', 'deal', 'sent', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'much', 'greater', 'knowledge', 'political', 'side', 'life', 'every', 'vote', 'right', 'wrong', 'affect', 'outcome', 'making', 'vote', 'important']"
"['yes', 'would', 'sit', 'back', 'assume', 'worked', 'since', 'incarceration', 'aware', 'system', 'favor', 'state', 'government']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'bring', 'law', 'see', 'hand', 'serving', 'time', 'change', 'rehabilitation', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'towards', 'longer', 'learned', 'everyone', 'bad']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'happen', 'another', 'st', 'time', 'drug', 'offender', 'low', 'level', 'drug', 'crime', 'major', 'drug']"
[]
"['yes', 'incarcerate', 'become', 'fund', 'someone']"
[]
[]
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'thought', 'explaining', 'someone', 'abortion', 'gay', 'immigration', 'told', 'moderate', 'whatever']"
['yes']
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'well', 'crime', 'legislation']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'lot', 'go', 'prison', 'right', 'brought']"
"['yes', 'nobody', 'made']"
"['yes', 'look', 'past', 'current', 'situation', 'life', 'look', 'help', 'us', 'help', 'love', 'one', 'better', 'life']"
"['yes', 'never', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'current']"
"['child', 'came', 'prison', 'little', 'understanding', 'politics']"
"['dont', 'trust', 'one', 'need', 'full', 'cast', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'led', 'see', 'firsthand', 'judicial', 'political', 'taking', 'advantage', 'ignorance', 'represent', 'us', 'ways', 'receive', 'activism']"
"['always', 'aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'since', 'prison', 'seen', 'need', 'new']"
"['would', 'say', 'particular', 'political', 'drastically', 'due', 'current', 'prisoner', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'corrupt', 'country', 'put', 'microscope']"
[]
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'empty', 'made']"
"['yes', 'understanding', 'empathy', 'lot', 'respect', 'experienced', 'sides', 'view', 'lot', 'idea']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'two', 'point', 'box']"
[]
"['yes', 'state', 'prison', 'essentially', 'lying', 'resume', 'yrs', 'yrs', 'probation', 'offense', 'kind', 'army', 'meant', 'nothing']"
"['yes', 'substance', 'abuse']"
"['yes', 'say', 'since', 'incarceration', 'learned', 'comes', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'paying', 'attention', 'news', 'gun', 'violence', 'scare']"
"['yes', 'new', 'trump']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'politics', 'interest', 'household', 'since', 'seen', 'right', 'impact', 'economy', 'prison', 'never', 'attention']"
"['yes', 'go', 'go', 'trump', 'always', 'problem', 'reb']"
[]
[]
"['please', 'pull', 'think', 'information', 'find', 'interesting', 'even', 'looking', 'fox', 'news', 'mason', 'county', 'prison', 'currently', 'investigation']"
"['yes', 'realization', 'justice', 'system', 'flawed', 'constitutional']"
"['yes', 'political', 'world']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'new', 'light', 'never', 'saw', 'society']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'going', 'help', 'possible', 'choice']"
[]
"['yes', 'come', 'conservative', 'view', 'shown', 'liberal', 'however', 'comes', 'state', 'conservative', 'ideal', 'reason', 'provide', 'must', 'provide', 'one', 'whatever', 'personal', 'id', 'would', 'world']"
"['yes', 'make', 'pay', 'deserve', 'nd', 'chance', 'still', 'get', 'everything', 'even', 'trouble', 'due', 'felony', 'record']"
"['yes', 'female', 'like', 'trash', 'prison', 'population', 'corrupt']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'end', 'unjust', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'seen', 'hand', 'importance', 'voting', 'municipal', 'state', 'level', 'affect', 'directly']"
[]
"['sure', 'able', 'read', 'watch', 'anything', 'going']"
"['yes', 'well', 'democrat']"
"['yes', 'made', 'live', 'view', 'politics', 'together']"
"['yes', 'voting', 'passing']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'given', 'opportunity', 'show', 'growth', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'seeing', 'many', 'times', 'state', 'election', 'really', 'think', 'vote', 'dont', 'matter', 'put', 'whoever', 'want', 'chair']"
"['yes', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'resolved']"
"['yes', 'like', 'space', 'taken', 'jail', 'would', 'let']"
"['open', 'blind', 'felt', 'higher']"
"['yes', 'see', 'long', 'physical', 'contact', 'harm', 'child', 'possession', 'drug', 'wife', 'getting']"
"['yes', 'never', 'used', 'care', 'watch', 'world', 'unfold', 'us', 'change', 'completely']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'inside']"
"['become', 'much', 'engaged', 'much', 'reflective', 'contemplative', 'politics', 'profess', 'life', 'live', 'two']"
"['yes', 'impeachment', 'president', 'trump']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'prison', 'reform', 'mandatory', 'minimum', 'priority', 'many', 'one']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'hand', 'unrealistic', 'sometimes', 'even', 'bias', 'truly', 'change', 'country', 'best', 'need', 'get', 'real', 'life', 'feedback', 'help', 'living', 'want']"
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'sector', 'society', 'really', 'never']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'yes', 'see', 'politics', 'us', 'give', 'us', 'chance', 'ourself']"
"['yes', 'anti', 'marijuana', 'pro', 'pot']"
"['yes', 'liberal', 'freedom', 'choice']"
"['yes', 'old', 'caught', 'charge', 'unfamiliar', 'law', 'anything', 'basically', 'way', 'court', 'room', 'vulnerable', 'sold', 'ten', 'worth', 'gave', 'time', 'ever', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'look', 'different', 'perception', 'end', 'stuff', 'hope', 'becomes']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'support', 'support', 'law', 'dictate', 'serve', 'statutory']"
[]
[]
[]
"['wrongly', 'yet', 'somewhat', 'affected', 'overall', 'right', 'direction', 'right', 'smart', 'honest', 'right', 'help', 'lead', 'world', 'right', 'direction']"
[]
"['yes', 'hard', 'find', 'somebody', 'fix', 'broken', 'world', 'everybody', 'always', 'sell', 'going', 'get', 'nothing', 'personal', 'gain']"
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'greatly', 'hardly', 'help', 'hard', 'find', 'platform', 'use', 'unlawful', 'incarceration', 'new', 'could', 'forever', 'change', 'system']"
"['yes', 'since', 'prison', 'chance', 'really', 'understand', 'political', 'world', 'times', 'found', 'disgusting', 'group', 'race', 'two', 'always', 'going', 'left', 'big', 'scheme', 'sitting', 'supreme']"
[]
"['yes', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'mandatory', 'minimum', 'state']"
['yes']
"['still', 'independent', 'major', 'political', 'believe', 'right', 'vote', 'concerned']"
"['yes', 'growing', 'everyday', 'learning', 'different', 'effect']"
[]
[]
['matter']
"['see', 'politics', 'involved', 'multimillion', 'made', 'chose', 'wrong', 'path', 'dealt', 'bad', 'hand']"
"['attention', 'politics', 'since', 'become', 'interested', 'direction', 'government']"
"['everything', 'false', 'used', 'think', 'help', 'everybody', 'maybe', 'want', 'push', 'agenda', 'instance', 'take', 'virus', 'back', 'thought', 'everyone', 'die', 'mean', 'days', 'straight', 'would', 'deformed', 'government', 'cut', 'check', 'billion', 'praise', 'since', 'smoking', 'every', 'day', 'receive', 'personal', 'spending', 'budget', 'although', 'start', 'good', 'none', 'come', 'clean', 'know', 'love', 'money', 'root', 'evil', 'personal', 'vote']"
"['see', 'country']"
['yes']
"['aware', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'negative', 'mandatory']"
['yes']
"['due', 'corruption', 'went', 'hand', 'court', 'system']"
"['nothing', 'never', 'done', 'problem', 'prison', 'nothing', 'help', 'build', 'mor', 'instead']"
['know']
"['shorter', 'drug', 'longer', 'gang', 'activity']"
"['informed', 'desire', 'involved', 'change']"
"['well', 'see', 'inner']"
[]
"['never', 'politics', 'streets', 'prison', 'trying', 'better', 'much', 'informed', 'politics', 'came', 'trying', 'better']"
"['yes', 'go', 'back', 'forth', 'whether', 'would', 'vote', 'democratic', 'republican', 'agree', 'sides', 'certain']"
"['better', 'understanding', 'rule', 'law', 'family', 'foundation', 'country', 'built', 'feel', 'power', 'vote', 'accomplished', 'come', 'together', 'political', 'existence', 'matter', 'know', 'view', 'change', 'change', 'taught', 'morning', 'star', 'rise', 'new', 'journey', 'truth']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'designed', 'rehabilitate', 'instead', 'dand', 'streets', 'set', 'failure']"
"['life', 'see', 'side', 'blind']"
"['grown', 'times', 'set', 'ways', 'chang', 'information', 'available', 'time']"
"['really', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics', 'ex', 'military', 'pretty', 'much', 'always', 'thought', 'always', 'antimilitary', 'ever', 'anything', 'good', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'see', 'sides', 'good', 'bad', 'well', 'use', 'lately', 'try', 'change', 'us', 'socialist', 'government']"
"['punishment', 'serious', 'prison', 'long', 'time']"
"['prison', 'seeing', 'person', 'think']"
"['meet', 'mandatory', 'simple', 'dont', 'hurt', 'society', 'begin', 'see', 'extreme', 'obvious', 'money', 'like', 'legal', 'human', 'government', 'suppose', 'faith', 'rehabilitation', 'best', 'interest', 'another', 'human', 'made', 'mistake', 'came', 'prison', 'getting', 'high', 'mutual', 'combat', 'fight', 'ended', 'coming', 'top', 'protecting', 'friend', 'intimately', 'judicial', 'system', 'made', 'hard', 'believe', 'running', 'county', 'state', 'country', 'us', 'question', 'best', 'interest']"
"['never', 'care', 'effects', 'freedom']"
"['watched', 'news']"
"['since', 'watching', 'news', 'racial', 'status', 'change']"
"['well', 'locked', 'dog', 'pound', 'see', 'took', 'like', 'news', 'political', 'wise', 'though', 'feel', 'like', 'say', 'made', 'mistake', 'prison', 'days', 'see', 'past', 'judge', 'easily', 'understand', 'time', 'right', 'judge', 'us', 'treat', 'us']"
"['well', 'prison', 'never', 'really', 'politics', 'country']"
"['though', 'prison', 'bad', 'know', 'resource', 'state', 'percent', 'hostage', 'past', 'fixed', 'time']"
"['time', 'watch', 'learn', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'belief', 'system', 'thought', 'stood', 'positive', 'country', 'prison', 'reform', 'together', 'unified', 'country', 'looking', 'rehabilitation', 'locking', 'better', 'job', 'training', 'get', 'welfare', 'like', 'would', 'agree', 'happening', 'country', 'sad', 'seen', 'country', 'divided', 'even', 'hear', 'saying', 'busy', 'pushing', 'agenda', 'hate', 'trump', 'president', 'four', 'year', 'term', 'deal', 'instead', 'fighting', 'could', 'got', 'accomplished', 'country', 'trump', 'southern', 'border', 'secure', 'feel', 'safe', 'deficit', 'reduced', 'instead', 'spent', 'millions']"
"['bull', 'country', 'trump']"
"['really', 'didnt', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'locked', 'idea', 'whats', 'going', 'politics', 'would', 'like', 'vote', 'count']"
"['yes', 'us', 'citizen', 'country', 'bad', 'vote', 'voice', 'matter']"
"['locked', 'didnt', 'even', 'pay', 'attention', 'care']"
"['become', 'aware', 'politics', 'interaction', 'recent']"
[]
"['see', 'importance', 'candidate', 'truly', 'stand']"
['incarceration']
"['dont', 'trust', 'days', 'hurt', 'nothing', 'always', 'power', 'next', 'man', 'never', 'money']"
"['seeing', 'many', 'poor', 'suffer', 'legal', 'process']"
"['felon', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'mostly', 'equal', 'much', 'comes', 'voting']"
"['well', 'watch', 'news', 'often', 'tune', 'made', 'political', 'personal']"
"['yea', 'cause', 'really', 'want', 'vote', 'cause', 'never', 'day', 'life']"
['yea']
"['respect', 'jail', 'system', 'rule', 'lost', 'respect', 'way', 'mislead', 'us', 'amount', 'time', 'keep', 'us', 'put', 'control', 'like', 'make', 'law', 'go', 'abuse', 'follow', 'us', 'like']"
"['sure', 'exactly']"
"['us', 'office', 'may', 'possibly']"
"['want', 'help', 'make', 'change']"
"['locked', 'away', 'notice', 'change']"
"['substitute', 'seeing', 'unfair', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'see', 'harder']"
"['time', 'around', 'made', 'view', 'differently']"
"['felon', 'young', 'age', 'barley', 'legal', 'vote', 'vote', 'right', 'taken', 'away', 'felon', 'still', 'citizen', 'country', 'feel', 'count', 'even', 'tho', 'black', 'man', 'feel', 'equal', 'skin', 'color', 'made', 'past', 'affect', 'future', 'bad', 'willing', 'change']"
"['see', 'happening', 'news', 'highest', 'official', 'discouraging']"
[]
"['since', 'time', 'think', 'everything', 'thats', 'going', 'wrong', 'world']"
[]
['race']
"['many', 'social', 'giving', 'incentive', 'work']"
['thin']
"['better', 'life', 'never', 'behind', 'whats', 'rite']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'freedom', 'many', 'actually', 'state', 'treat', 'like', 'justice', 'system']"
"['believe', 'better', 'congress']"
"['think', 'political', 'wise', 'never', 'anyone', 'type', 'office', 'focus', 'business', 'everything', 'money', 'heart', 'office', 'dont', 'even', 'care', 'money', 'thats', 'days']"
"['cause', 'stuff', 'affecting', 'us']"
"['seeing', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'make', 'money', 'care', 'rehabilitation', 'human', 'outrageous', 'way', 'food', 'given', 'eat', 'many', 'suffer', 'live']"
[]
[]
['yea']
"['need', 'schooling', 'instead', 'lock', 'us', 'forget', 'exist']"
"['see', 'jail', 'prepare', 'leaving']"
[]
"['time', 'sit', 'watch', 'news', 'get']"
[]
['yes']
"['yes', 'sexual', 'get', 'less', 'time', 'drug', 'need', 'help']"
"['lot', 'without', 'fair', 'chance', 'explain', 'proper', 'proper']"
"['given', 'input', 'certain', 'could', 'express', 'opinion', 'effectively', 'however', 'mostly', 'suggest', 'new', 'presidential', 'vote', 'candidate', 'terminate', 'current', 'presidential', 'official', 'effectively', 'unconditionally']"
[]
[]
"['unfairly', 'black']"
"['become', 'republican']"
"['want', 'careful', 'vote', 'political', 'wont', 'favor', 'class', 'wealth', 'race']"
"['yes', 'many']"
"['want', 'keep', 'locked', 'get', 'around', 'thousand', 'year', 'person', 'locked', 'would', 'give', 'thousand', 'year', 'wouldnt', 'coming', 'back', 'fourth', 'jail', 'get', 'one', 'us', 'jail', 'person', 'year', 'working', 'everyday']"
"['order', 'form', 'perfect', 'union', 'establish', 'justice', 'domestic', 'better', 'characterize', 'us', 'protect', 'us', 'us', 'us', 'say', 'express', 'god', 'give', 'right', 'vote', 'support', 'increase', 'develop', 'county', 'grow', 'inspiration', 'equality', 'unity', 'oppressed', 'combining', 'grave', 'provide', 'fir', 'common', 'defense', 'promote', 'general', 'secure', 'land', 'food', 'supply', 'water', 'constitution', 'united']"
"['suck', 'time', 'make', 'change', 'self']"
"['whole', 'outlook', 'life', 'positive', 'life', 'like', 'another', 'statistic']"
['worried']
"['way', 'politics', 'even']"
"['look', 'different']"
"['time', 'news']"
"['yes', 'question']"
['nope']
"['hurt', 'law', 'fighting', 'life']"
"['yes', 'time', 'look', 'political']"
"['two', 'trump', 'know', 'better', 'party', 'white', 'house']"
"['belive', 'one']"
"['watching', 'news', 'really', 'gaining', 'sense', 'going', 'country', 'huge', 'motivation', 'anyone', 'want', 'better', 'country', 'living', 'especially', 'could', 'possibly', 'effect', 'personally', 'type', 'way', 'another']"
"['given', 'far', 'attention', 'regarding', 'nation', 'state', 'office', 'main', 'force', 'goal', 'running', 'accomplish', 'anything', 'listen', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'pray', 'country', 'far', 'coming', 'like', 'never', 'work', 'betterment', 'nation', 'follow']"
"['unaware', 'justice', 'system', 'truly', 'running']"
"['informed', 'certain', 'never', 'attention']"
"['well', 'free', 'didnt', 'think', 'much', 'politics', 'got', 'register', 'rest', 'life', 'know', 'politics', 'going', 'effect', 'much']"
[]
"['much', 'attention', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'everyone', 'everybody', 'locked', 'nobody', 'help', 'reintegrate']"
"['right', 'vote', 'care', 'informed', 'correctly', 'going', 'country', 'cannot', 'vote', 'bother', 'voice']"
"['judge', 'book', 'cover', 'give', 'chance', 'perfect']"
"['going', 'run', 'way', 'want']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'justice', 'system', 'failure', 'whole', 'life', 'several', 'help', 'feel', 'werent', 'worried', 'money', 'maybe', 'could', 'happen', 'prevent', 'work']"
"['feel', 'whole', 'president', 'thing', 'stupid', 'king', 'father', 'son', 'holy', 'ghost', 'unless', 'say', 'vote', 'president', 'exactly', 'mean', 'know', 'everyone', 'less', 'god', 'everyone', 'equal', 'one', 'person', 'decide', 'everything', 'unless', 'something', 'probably', 'care', 'thing', 'government', 'fact', 'try', 'better', 'world', 'yet', 'cycle', 'exactly']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'streets', 'always', 'clean', 'year', 'clear', 'head', 'believe', 'important', 'know', 'going', 'country']"
"['political', 'never', 'politics']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'dont', 'seem', 'fair']"
"['life', 'real', 'party']"
"['world', 'since', 'office']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'much', 'politics', 'dealt', 'incarceration', 'till', 'want', 'help', 'change', 'vote']"
"['never', 'keep', 'lie', 'get', 'position']"
"['yes', 'use', 'believe', 'much', 'interested', 'country']"
"['even', 'thou', 'still', 'country', 'ran', 'leader', 'would', 'count', 'even', 'thou', 'made', 'havent', 'got', 'brushed', 'table', 'cause', 'right', 'commit', 'fraud', 'crime']"
"['yes', 'need', 'active', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'really', 'care', 'went', 'world', 'say', 'today', 'think', 'matter']"
"['different', 'look', 'world', 'god', 'made', 'us']"
['right']
['really']
"['used', 'strictly', 'partisan', 'understand', 'important', 'work', 'across', 'aisle', 'taken', 'different', 'approach', 'listening', 'government', 'facing', 'country', 'registered', 'vote', 'democrat', 'think', 'independent']"
"['thing', 'effect']"
"['feel', 'given', 'right', 'vote']"
"['aware', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'actually', 'care']"
"['spent', 'time', 'sat', 'paying', 'attention', 'news', 'impeachment', 'came', 'strong', 'never', 'sat', 'long', 'enough', 'care', 'think']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'real', 'thing', 'us', 'believe', 'time', 'walk', 'prison', 'forgotten', 'instant', 'prison', 'number', 'become', 'nothing', 'inmate', 'matter', 'crime', 'sad']"
"['realize', 'unfair', 'justice', 'bad', 'us']"
"['stripped', 'long', 'really', 'give', 'damn', 'politics', 'system', 'corrupt', 'many', 'like', 'consider', 'justice', 'none', 'would', 'name', 'identity', 'false', 'media', 'care', 'much', 'politics', 'system', 'advocate', 'seen', 'strong', 'believer', 'self', 'state', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'way', 'change', 'since']"
"['yes', 'many', 'smart', 'intelligent', 'would', 'like', 'chance', 'vote', 'even', 'give', 'opinion', 'political']"
"['think', 'system', 'flawed']"
"['murder', 'used', 'hand', 'gun', 'woman', 'part', 'group', 'reaching', 'within', 'stop', 'violence', 'group', 'active', 'member', 'years', 'different', 'end', 'know', 'kill', 'saved', 'lots', 'man', 'part', 'used', 'send', 'magazine', 'would', 'gun', 'years', 'gun', 'would', 'dye', 'depending', 'day', 'ask', 'sometimes', 'wish', 'would', 'let', 'kill', 'sometimes', 'actually', 'gone', 'since', 'prison', 'never', 'hit', 'beat', 'freer', 'ever', 'marriage', 'see', 'emotion', 'time', 'beat', 'never', 'gun', 'night', 'shot', 'wish', 'gun']"
"['mor', 'involved', 'whats']"
"['understand', 'educated', 'productive', 'society', 'end', 'prison', 'fathom', 'someone', 'like', 'square', 'goody', 'two', 'going', 'prison', 'let', 'alone', 'getting', 'month', 'sentence', 'thought', 'little', 'deserved', 'incarceration', 'harsh', 'reality', 'living', 'life', 'behind']"
"['one', 'rape', 'child', 'molestation', 'murder', 'get', 'less', 'drug', 'enough', 'rehabilitation', 'da', 'even', 'higher', 'rank', 'quick', 'throw', 'away', 'key', 'rather', 'help', 'put', 'money', 'locking', 'away', 'instead', 'trying', 'invest', 'making', 'better', 'money', 'waisted', 'could', 'given', 'chance', 'find', 'help', 'rather', 'thrown', 'away', 'chance', 'could', 'put', 'take', 'streets', 'teach', 'outside', 'drug', 'dealing', 'street', 'waist', 'much', 'money', 'yet', 'none', 'next', 'generation', 'become', 'better']"
"['justice', 'system', 'coming', 'prison', 'meeting', 'truly', 'amazing']"
"['need', 'freedom']"
"['come', 'say', 'think', 'matter']"
[]
"['almost', 'four', 'given', 'get', 'better', 'education', 'take', 'world']"
"['well', 'inside', 'looking', 'see', 'economy', 'based', 'background', 'country', 'supposed', 'based', 'freedom', 'second', 'hard', 'majority', 'society', 'grant', 'could', 'simple', 'made', 'poor', 'choice', 'bad', 'day']"
"['yes', 'since', 'seen', 'hand', 'corrupted', 'system', 'us']"
"['made', 'want', 'vote', 'knowing', 'one', 'vote', 'make', 'difference', 'life', 'future']"
"['number', 'place', 'even', 'pay', 'medical', 'office', 'like', 'sick', 'call']"
"['really', 'would', 'lick', 'vote', 'believe']"
"['thought', 'werent', 'exactly', 'true']"
"['aware', 'going']"
"['feel', 'pay', 'attention', 'going']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'dont', 'care']"
"['much', 'aware', 'fact', 'society', 'become', 'punitive', 'police', 'state', 'rather', 'restorative', 'society']"
"['time', 'learn']"
"['yes', 'voting', 'would', 'really', 'make', 'impact', 'us']"
"['realize', 'low', 'priority', 'inside', 'dont', 'get', 'known', 'outside', 'make', 'prison', 'reform', 'need', 'experience', 'really', 'know']"
"['prison', 'didnt', 'care', 'realize', 'attitude', 'country']"
"['seeing', 'system', 'ran', 'lot', 'plus', 'tune', 'going']"
"['aware', 'since', 'sober']"
"['learned', 'want', 'better', 'world', 'made', 'better', 'want', 'vote', 'right', 'help', 'make', 'made']"
"['experience', 'prison', 'oblivious', 'core', 'prison', 'population', 'adequate', 'medical', 'care', 'prison', 'fair', 'coming', 'prison', 'prison', 'reserved', 'considered', 'clear', 'present', 'danger', 'society', 'however', 'sadly', 'personal', 'experience', 'far', 'many', 'drug', 'prison', 'system', 'foster', 'care', 'system', 'another', 'generation', 'men', 'sad', 'approach', 'taken', 'worked']"
['answer']
[]
"['guess', 'informed', 'certain', 'follow']"
"['system', 'seeing', 'close', 'acting', 'concerning', 'trump']"
"['question', 'prosper', 'help', 'country', 'best', 'country', 'willing', 'sacrifice', 'greater', 'good']"
"['watching', 'news', 'impeachment', 'treating', 'dont', 'care', 'self']"
"['aware', 'world']"
"['want', 'right', 'change']"
"['take', 'making', 'voice', 'count', 'serious', 'came', 'prison', 'young', 'think', 'mature', 'life', 'want', 'make', 'life', 'better']"
['nope']
['important']
"['need', 'someone', 'office']"
"['taught', 'important', 'office']"
"['much', 'chaos', 'poverty', 'get', 'get']"
['yes']
[]
"['think', 'get', 'good', 'time', 'chance']"
"['attention', 'politics']"
"['prison', 'different', 'outlook', 'like', 'racial', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
['yes']
"['know', 'like', 'locked', 'everything', 'mind', 'world']"
"['feel', 'strongly', 'president']"
"['gun', 'feel', 'like', 'kill', 'giving', 'right', 'like', 'giving', 'dope', 'addict']"
"['learned', 'little']"
"['care', 'really', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['voice', 'matter', 'concern', 'following']"
"['didnt', 'one']"
"['system', 'change', 'remains']"
"['watching', 'news', 'locked', 'see', 'stuff', 'dont', 'agree', 'like', 'world', 'impeachment', 'trump', 'dont', 'like', 'way', 'working', 'didnt', 'like', 'going', 'didnt', 'vote']"
"['feel', 'like', 'tell', 'us', 'one', 'thing']"
"['amount', 'time', 'spent', 'number', 'shooting', 'due', 'gun', 'violence', 'major']"
"['political', 'view', 'mainly', 'entire', 'perception', 'perspective', 'citizen', 'must', 'focus', 'certain', 'might', 'care', 'one', 'men', 'want', 'return', 'prison', 'regress', 'crime', 'order', 'survive']"
"['despite', 'limit', 'post', 'conviction', 'found', 'becoming', 'liberal']"
"['give', 'second', 'chance', 'never']"
"['society', 'time', 'still', 'keep', 'ways', 'world', 'order', 'form', 'valid', 'political', 'belief']"
[]
"['new', 'always', 'make', 'brake', 'sentence', 'lifer']"
"['well', 'know', 'little', 'bit', 'works']"
"['keep', 'getting']"
"['feel', 'locked', 'long', 'money', 'trying', 'help', 'someone']"
"['customs', 'leadership', 'needs', 'change', 'favor', 'poor']"
"['united', 'faced', 'multitude', 'united', 'divided', 'ever', 'causing', 'lose', 'sight', 'real', 'government', 'supporting', 'veteran', 'way', 'used', 'lot', 'discussion', 'mental', 'health', 'crises', 'one', 'root', 'issue', 'lit', 'easier', 'justify', 'reason', 'think', 'something', 'real', 'reason', 'race', 'injustice', 'another', 'main', 'issue', 'think', 'color', 'skin', 'experienced', 'sort', 'injustice', 'life', 'judge', 'color', 'one', 'skin', 'content', 'one', 'character', 'believe', 'racial', 'discrimination', 'fall', 'system', 'used', 'many', 'avoid', 'real', 'cause', 'heart', 'issue', 'law', 'enforcement', 'comes', 'neighborhood', 'return', 'arrest', 'warrant', 'neighborhood', 'predominantly']"
"['election', 'trump', 'political', 'view', 'extremely']"
"['becoming', 'political', 'social', 'become', 'freer', 'thinker']"
"['feel', 'important', 'vote', 'right', 'person']"
['nope']
"['thought', 'fair', 'helping', 'pay', 'return', 'society', 'know', 'government', 'someone', 'political', 'office', 'automatically', 'criminal', 'greater', 'potential', 'harm', 'ever']"
['interested']
['opinion']
"['time', 'think']"
[]
"['used', 'belive', 'ideal', 'political', 'party', 'ever', 'since', 'trump', 'took', 'office', 'seen', 'really', 'trying', 'improve', 'united', 'whether', 'try', 'inflict', 'us', 'want', 'feel', 'safe', 'truthfully', 'even', 'though', 'honestly', 'say', 'thanks', 'republican', 'trump', 'want', 'take', 'freedom', 'appreciate', 'united']"
['vote']
"['well', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['never', 'used', 'care', 'politics', 'got', 'locked']"
"['believe', 'needs', 'real', 'serious', 'look', 'prison', 'reform', 'handle', 'reform', 'reintegrate', 'society', 'engage', 'real', 'social', 'restorative', 'justice', 'part', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'use', 'parole', 'set', 'political', 'system', 'within', 'country', 'seen', 'hand', 'corruption', 'within', 'need', 'better', 'way']"
"['old', 'need', 'get', 'new']"
['learned']
"['understand', 'voting', 'see']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'republican', 'suppose', 'according', 'constitutional', 'law', 'front', 'mistreat', 'another', 'country']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'jail', 'see', 'easy', 'one', 'simplist', 'yes', 'hold', 'accountable', 'trial', 'let', 'get', 'stop', 'profit']"
"['time', 'think', 'learn', 'stuff']"
"['political', 'get', 'close', 'look', 'mess', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'understand', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'also', 'free', 'time', 'scrutinize', 'closely']"
"['since', 'lock', 'see', 'go']"
"['prior', 'interested', 'age', 'young', 'age', 'able', 'vote', 'something', 'interest', 'different', 'person', 'state', 'country', 'much']"
['answer']
"['rather', 'say']"
"['seen', 'good', 'side', 'bad', 'bad', 'side', 'good', 'every']"
"['see', 'wasteful', 'cruel', 'system']"
"['cause', 'brake', 'whatever', 'nothing', 'brake', 'law', 'go', 'prison']"
"['see', 'better']"
"['aware', 'older']"
"['whole', 'different', 'view', 'life', 'never', 'understood', 'justice', 'system']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'political', 'around', 'self', 'politics', 'decided', 'live', 'life', 'foremost']"
"['money', 'mater']"
"['put', 'self', 'around', 'usually', 'would', 'around', 'herd', 'different', 'mind']"
"['difficult', 'time', 'expanding', 'question']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['person', 'time', 'gather', 'knowledge', 'pertaining', 'politics', 'learn', 'lot', 'see', 'lot', 'thus', 'change', 'time']"
"['tremendously', 'life', 'used', 'left', 'wing', 'feel', 'like', 'right', 'wing']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['think', 'politics', 'differently']"
"['seen', 'sides', 'justice', 'system', 'sad', 'working', 'government', 'prisoner', 'way', 'say', 'one', 'thing', 'another', 'word', 'play', 'substance']"
"['really', 'think', 'prison', 'population', 'high', 'outside', 'doesnt', 'let', 'see', 'see', 'problem', 'prison', 'population']"
"['used', 'however', 'really', 'made', 'fool', 'trump', 'stuff']"
"['yes', 'see', 'certain', 'seem', 'screw']"
"['see', 'nothing', 'year', 'year', 'time', 'everyone', 'nd', 'political']"
[]
"['view', 'need', 'help', 'sort', 'way', 'rich', 'get', 'crime']"
[]
['person']
"['thank', 'full']"
"['made', 'see', 'look', 'different', 'feel', 'like', 'listen', 'go', 'along', 'want', 'hear', 'think', 'unless', 'government', 'giving', 'something', 'nothing', 'good', 'want', 'fix', 'get', 'hurt', 'see', 'system', 'fixed']"
"['believe', 'better', 'getting', 'much', 'time', 'crime', 'doesnt', 'make', 'sense']"
['since']
"['give', 'one', 'let', 'even', 'wrong', 'healing', 'begin', 'may', 'family', 'society', 'line', 'good', 'one', 'side', 'bad', 'start', 'power', 'us', 'power', 'lead', 'corruption', 'made']"
"['prior', 'like', 'many', 'prison', 'simply', 'rotten', 'know', 'hurt', 'often', 'far', 'inmate', 'emotionally', 'health', 'wise', 'financially', 'realize', 'system', 'also', 'far', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'face', 'else']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'didnt', 'even', 'know', 'rep', 'know', 'understand', 'importance', 'country']"
"['need', 'bracket', 'penal', 'system', 'easily', 'play', 'rape', 'victim', 'way', 'keep', 'ever', 'get', 'legal', 'system', 'card', 'flaw', 'engage', 'sex', 'year', 'old', 'god', 'bid', 'send', 'naked', 'flick', 'chick', 'child', 'another', 'way', 'get', 'conviction', 'dont', 'care', 'jay', 'walking', 'book', 'every', 'little', 'thing', 'keep', 'locked', 'see', 'state', 'rate', 'take', 'plus', 'make', 'look', 'good', 'make', 'stay', 'longer']"
['nope_ù']
"['see', 'less', 'squabbling', 'done']"
"['politics', 'bunch', 'trying', 'look', 'good', 'moment', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'second', 'chance', 'many', 'think', 'return', 'prison', 'let', 'drug', 'sex', 'easy', 'hurt', 'man', 'physically', 'circumstance', 'get', 'nobody']"
"['system', 'corrupt']"
"['slightly', 'part', 'become', 'educated', 'works', 'justice', 'system', 'help', 'reformation', 'reconstruction', 'necessary', 'sure', 'call', 'land', 'free', 'one', 'prison', 'world', 'time', 'dont', 'give', 'second', 'give', 'law', 'abiding', 'least', 'every', 'registration', 'parole', 'system', 'designed', 'put', 'back', 'prison', 'reason', 'know', 'guy', 'parole', 'making', 'page', 'seriously', 'come', 'back', 'prison', 'hell', 'legal']"
"['yes', 'say', 'want', 'every', 'vote', 'let', 'vote', 'even']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['el', 'coco']"
"['never', 'took', 'much', 'time', 'listen', 'news', 'going', 'around', 'time']"
['yes']
"['honest', 'yes', 'political', 'regard', 'much', 'informed', 'dont', 'listen', 'say', 'able', 'learn', 'like', 'current', 'presidential', 'really', 'stand', 'even', 'stand', 'believe', 'country', 'stand', 'untied']"
"['used', 'independent', 'leaning', 'democratic', 'party', 'find', 'always', 'seem', 'agree', 'republican']"
"['use', 'would', 'praise', 'took', 'pride', 'however', 'refuse', 'stand', 'look', 'rapist', 'gang', 'serial', 'yet', 'sit', 'back', 'show', 'mass', 'terroristic', 'homeland']"
"['yes', 'become', 'politics', 'halfway', 'see']"
"['see', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'around', 'politics', 'affecting']"
"['political', 'many', 'ways', 'one', 'way', 'inside', 'fact', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'go', 'dealing', 'simple', 'marijuana', 'child', 'support', 'traffic', 'mention', 'since', 'locked', 'tend', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'happening', 'society', 'effect', 'change']"
"['everything', 'politics', 'get', 'older', 'help', 'think', 'future', 'like', 'since', 'current', 'pretender', 'office', 'currently', 'father', 'absent', 'life', 'god', 'willing', 'getting', 'face', 'deportation', 'country', 'name', 'imagine', 'whats', 'going', 'young', 'right', 'watch', 'news', 'news', 'side', 'world', 'current', 'president', 'nothing', 'uncertainty', 'never', 'life', 'think', 'would', 'watching', 'news', 'right', 'future', 'along', 'limbo', 'yes', 'political', 'tremendously']"
['time']
"['yes', 'time', 'think', 'sitting', 'prison', 'observe', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'world', 'world', 'never', 'really', 'understood', 'going']"
"['want', 'vote', 'cause', 'every', 'vote', 'put', 'office', 'affect', 'family', 'future', 'life', 'come', 'stop', 'office', 'lieve', 'healthy', 'planet']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'need', 'crooked', 'president']"
"['feel', 'empathy', 'struggling', 'greater', 'understanding', 'like', 'say', 'world', 'around', 'also', 'time', 'think', 'like', 'prison', 'reform']"
[]
"['gotten', 'experience', 'another', 'dimension', 'part', 'population']"
"['horrible', 'idea']"
"['yes', 'tablet', 'political', 'science', 'understand', 'government', 'whats', 'going', 'whats', 'going', 'like', 'think', 'theres', 'bigger', 'issue', 'going', 'stupid', 'trump']"
"['never', 'really', 'used', 'care', 'government', 'think', 'never', 'really', 'choose', 'grow', 'prison', 'perception', 'subject', 'due', 'seeing', 'involved', 'country', 'mow', 'choose', 'pay', 'attention', 'country', 'ran']"
"['dont', 'prison']"
"['prison', 'thing', 'general', 'weird']"
"['watch', 'news', 'streets', 'see', 'bias', 'different', 'news']"
"['go', 'society', 'sure', 'political', 'many', 'different']"
"['never', 'political', 'prison', 'cause', 'life', 'wrong', 'productive']"
"['feel', 'right', 'person', 'office', 'could', 'impact', 'prison', 'finding', 'right', 'person', 'could', 'thing', 'hard']"
"['naive', 'year', 'old', 'came', 'prison', 'sit', 'reflect', 'got', 'political', 'based']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'opinion', 'specially', 'happening', 'world']"
"['wrong', 'full']"
"['since', 'find', 'politics', 'interesting']"
"['place', 'opportunity', 'educate', 'governing', 'back', 'incarceration', 'based', 'feeling', 'based', 'reality']"
"['look', 'different', 'rapist', 'drug', 'life', 'better', 'supposed', 'help', 'stupid', 'suppose', 'change', 'listen', 'claim', 'help', 'solve', 'truth', 'ignorant', 'nothing', 'talking']"
"['never', 'want', 'try', 'get', 'right', 'person', 'office', 'help']"
"['seen', 'hand', 'prison', 'reform', 'plight', 'mentally', 'ill']"
"['understand', 'strive', 'set', 'fell', 'cycle', 'stays', 'flowing']"
"['beleave', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'help', 'lots', 'like', 'two', 'crime', 'one', 'get', 'like', 'one', 'get', 'everyone', 'matter']"
"['hyper', 'aware', 'politically', 'lucid', 'justification', 'whats', 'right']"
"['well', 'time', 'think']"
"['dont', 'know', 'answer']"
"['politics', 'key', 'role', 'prison', 'choosing', 'side', 'better', 'change', 'view', 'politics']"
"['come', 'understand', 'clearly', 'freedom', 'wish', 'even', 'come', 'slowly', 'removed', 'even', 'realize']"
[]
"['never', 'really', 'find', 'watching', 'much', 'going', 'never', 'knew']"
"['die', 'hard', 'democrat', 'several', 'later', 'know', 'party', 'identification', 'solely', 'republican']"
"['political', 'absent', 'develop', 'aware', 'nation']"
"['justice', 'system', 'true', 'justice', 'full', 'spouting', 'like', 'innocent', 'proven', 'guilty', 'restorative', 'justice', 'side', 'see', 'get', 'fact', 'court', 'already', 'assume', 'guilty', 'well', 'must', 'guilty', 'fit', 'crime', 'work', 'hand', 'hand', 'together', 'defense', 'side', 'left', 'loop', 'concerned', 'conviction', 'sentence', 'true', 'justice', 'time', 'crime', 'nothing', 'consider', 'individual', 'working', 'really', 'bad', 'ever', 'yet', 'told', 'different', 'got', 'caught', 'havent', 'arent', 'bad', 'made', 'bad', 'choice', 'training', 'sho']"
['explain']
[]
[]
"['become', 'aware', 'pertinent', 'never', 'really', 'considered', 'incarceration']"
"['went', 'see', 'inside', 'looking', 'view', 'seeing', 'really', 'represent', 'removing', 'racial', 'identity', 'equation', 'maturing', 'wanting', 'certain', 'stopped']"
"['prison', 'respect', 'rule', 'law', 'politics', 'interesting', 'prison', 'come', 'greatly', 'care', 'world', 'country', 'state', 'care', 'respect', 'need', 'care', 'make', 'life', 'country', 'free', 'world', 'family', 'future']"
"['yes', 'keeping', 'us', 'helping', 'us', 'succeed', 'get', 'plus', 'lot', 'lot']"
"['world', 'live', 'good', 'see', 'trying', 'make']"
"['really', 'care', 'care', 'less', 'interested', 'know']"
['political']
['wasnt']
"['time', 'ever', 'host', 'wrongfully', 'politics', 'care', 'actual', 'justice', 'think', 'many', 'help', 'keep', 'incarcerate', 'evidence', 'kind', 'truly', 'sad', 'yes', 'political', 'extremely', 'change']"
"['well', 'place', 'see']"
[]
"['gotten', 'older', 'educated']"
"['fact', 'world', 'world']"
"['never', 'really', 'voting', 'much', 'anything', 'streets', 'gotten', 'older', 'wanting', 'make', 'difference', 'world']"
"['politics', 'worried', 'money', 'raise']"
"['made', 'see', 'vivid', 'picture', 'enforced', 'mostly', 'get', 'measure', 'punishment', 'also', 'making', 'totally', 'disconnected', 'reality', 'impact', 'oblivious', 'actually', 'happening', 'want', 'please', 'party', 'base']"
"['slightly', 'understanding', 'plight', 'sex', 'offender', 'prison', 'outside']"
"['young', 'young', 'reckless', 'foolish', 'never', 'thought', 'think', 'best', 'family', 'think', 'introspection', 'educated', 'insight']"
"['running', 'different', 'tell', 'public', 'going', 'know', 'going', 'tell', 'get', 'support']"
"['realize', 'country', 'pretty', 'worried', 'wrong']"
"['well', 'never', 'prison', 'yr', 'veteran', 'army', 'never', 'attention', 'prison', 'politics', 'even', 'watch', 'like', 'see', 'filth', 'unjustice', 'world', 'horrific', 'treatment', 'staff', 'medical', 'personal', 'fact', 'system', 'never', 'getting', 'unless', 'money', 'fighting', 'yet', 'prevail', 'nothing', 'one', 'must', 'knowledge', 'seasoned', 'attorney', 'must', 'gain', 'knowledge', 'less', 'year', 'time', 'prepare', 'submit', 'post', 'conviction', 'one', 'know', 'fight', 'without', 'assistance', 'tell', 'wing', 'enough', 'pray', 'tremendously', 'court', 'counsel', 'thing', 'prison', 'us', 'hope', 'hope', 'reach', 'us', 'hope', 'justice', 'hope', 'dont', 'die', 'either', 'old', 'age', 'another', 'inmate']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'think', 'fair', 'crime', 'get', 'different', 'time']"
['much']
"['regarding', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'completely', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'supposed', 'seak', 'truth', 'necessary', 'provide', 'punishment', 'crime', 'hand', 'life', 'effective', 'life', 'like', 'candy', 'however', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'perverted', 'desire', 'win', 'conviction', 'pad', 'conviction', 'rate', 'county', 'parish', 'pad', 'status', 'longer', 'truth', 'long', 'prosecutor', 'conviction', 'care', 'truth', 'right', 'wrong', 'justice', 'injustice']"
"['growing', 'black', 'household', 'seeing', 'taught', 'assumed', 'taken', 'overtime', 'reading', 'child', 'even', 'adult', 'give', 'benefit', 'independent', 'want', 'vote', 'worked', 'vote']"
"['use', 'think', 'system', 'seen', 'hand', 'innocent', 'get', 'put', 'away', 'look', 'good']"
"['justice', 'system', 'fair', 'equal', 'even', 'political', 'view']"
"['claim', 'political', 'party', 'late', 'want', 'need', 'understand', 'poor', 'back', 'problem', 'removal', 'god', 'everything', 'really', 'trying', 'keep', 'moral', 'intact', 'want', 'claim', 'office']"
"['word', 'miss', 'way', 'felt', 'drastically', 'yr', 'old', 'man', 'understanding', 'prison', 'reform', 'change', 'better', 'getting', 'longer', 'dependent', 'system', 'safe', 'place', 'get', 'hard', 'control', 'education', 'become', 'user', 'friendly', 'mean', 'another', 'criminal', 'living', 'next', 'thats', 'criminal', 'teach', 'man', 'fish', 'give', 'one']"
"['used', 'care', 'president', 'long', 'integrity', 'responsibly', 'would', 'like', 'see', 'president', 'reunite', 'country', 'achieve', 'great']"
"['care', 'prison', 'justice', 'reform', 'wronged']"
"['see', 'truly', 'goes', 'system', 'justice', 'reform', 'poor', 'uneducated', 'suffer', 'many', 'times', 'justice', 'system']"
"['watch', 'used', 'feel', 'informed']"
"['belive', 'never', 'want', 'take', 'mi', 'time', 'care', 'politics', 'time', 'know', 'import', 'need', 'try', 'make', 'change']"
['care']
"['yes', 'due', 'fact', 'never', 'oppressed', 'inmate', 'population', 'forced', 'form', 'capital', 'punishment', 'fair', 'lose', 'right', 'vote']"
"['never', 'crime', 'stuck', 'said', 'say', 'bull', 'kit', 'base', 'said', 'crime', 'puddock', 'said', 'got', 'tell', 'jury', 'bull', 'find', 'guilt', 'protecting', 'body', 'could', 'throw', 'book']"
"['yes', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'idea', 'impact', 'politics', 'whole', 'crime', 'punishment', 'issue', 'understand', 'locking', 'one', 'politician', 'keeping', 'employed', 'inordinately', 'high', 'pay', 'scale', 'mostly', 'useless', 'work', 'spend', 'awful', 'lot', 'money', 'feeding', 'helping', 'wealthy', 'stay', 'wealthy', 'bleeding', 'lower', 'middle', 'class', 'dry', 'exceptionally', 'good', 'ways', 'keep', 'growing', 'number', 'order', 'fuel', 'prison', 'industry', 'clearly', 'willing', 'find', 'ways', 'get', 'back', 'society', 'productive', 'good', 'example', 'person', 'murder', 'perform', 'nearly', 'impossible', 'hope', 'getting', 'prison', 'alive', 'yet', 'average', 'unbelievably', 'lower', 'recidivism', 'rate', 'group']"
['tell']
"['feel', 'government', 'locked', 'us', 'away', 'like', 'matter', 'still', 'matter']"
"['come', 'understand', 'given', 'legit', 'second', 'chance', 'believe', 'would', 'success']"
"['almost', 'yrs', 'since', 'time', 'world', 'many', 'ways', 'open', 'see', 'world', 'clearer', 'ever', 'sure', 'explain', 'answer', 'though']"
['somewhat']
"['seen', 'political', 'make', 'truly', 'effect', 'prisoner', 'system']"
"['well', 'since', 'twenty', 'old', 'basically', 'black', 'president', 'vote', 'last', 'time', 'older', 'maturer', 'look', 'lot', 'could', 'care', 'less', 'whether', 'black', 'white', 'blue', 'someone', 'prison', 'reform', 'restoration', 'broken', 'idea', 'prisoner', 'change']"
"['care', 'enough', 'political', 'understand', 'vital', 'importance']"
"['believe', 'lot', 'follow', 'chance', 'explain', 'one', 'many', 'going', 'injustice', 'system', 'brought', 'new', 'awareness', 'broken', 'never', 'voter', 'simply', 'never', 'impacted', 'life', 'love', 'main', 'much', 'criminal', 'justice', 'crime', 'punishment', 'racism', 'like', 'dealing', 'drug', 'epidemic', 'poverty', 'homelessness', 'like', 'greater', 'compassion', 'men', 'gotten', 'know', 'mainly', 'effective', 'hand', 'meaningful', 'treatment', 'could', 'say', 'much']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'lighter', 'punishment', 'pro', 'think', 'outside', 'able', 'see', 'arent', 'good', 'us', 'reform']"
[]
"['gone', 'republican', 'towards', 'authenticity', 'political', 'little', 'trust']"
"['clearer', 'truth', 'behind', 'politics', 'example', 'put', 'person', 'prison', 'life', 'simply', 'failing', 'register', 'one', 'reason', 'ask', 'support', 'mass', 'legal', 'human', 'often', 'time', 'received', 'base', 'tax', 'paying']"
"['look', 'get', 'never', 'get', 'believe', 'want', 'hear']"
"['gotten', 'interested', 'pay', 'attention', 'world', 'news', 'aware', 'going']"
"['open', 'minded', 'today']"
"['tuned', 'going', 'country', 'time', 'sit', 'watch', 'often', 'find', 'going', 'library']"
['cor']
"['view', 'gun', 'control']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['see', 'voting', 'right', 'see', 'order', 'voice', 'vote', 'closed', 'mouth', 'cant', 'get', 'feed', 'need', 'share', 'portion', 'need']"
"['injustice', 'justice', 'system']"
"['believe', 'government', 'affected', 'life', 'care', 'realize', 'voice']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'support', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['matter', 'want', 'right', 'person', 'office']"
"['watching', 'fox', 'news', 'trump', 'ass', 'ark', 'ran', 'female', 'need', 'taking', 'right', 'carry', 'dealt', 'thats', 'watching', 'damn', 'still', 'dealing']"
"['never', 'really', 'considered', 'prisoner', 'point', 'view', 'effect', 'political', 'one']"
['thin']
"['better', 'sit', 'around']"
"['would', 'like', 'presidency', 'also', 'bring', 'back']"
"['wen', 'come', 'dont']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'community', 'foreign', 'impeachment']"
[]
"['see', 'different']"
"['young', 'dumb', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'ran', 'country', 'older', 'starting', 'realize', 'much', 'effect']"
"['seen', 'havent', 'done', 'far', 'prison', 'reform', 'different', 'outlook', 'could', 'done', 'make', 'better']"
"['really', 'think', 'politics', 'stayed']"
"['prison', 'time']"
"['see', 'society', 'like', 'trash', 'real', 'chance', 'improve', 'ourself', 'correctional', 'simply', 'harass', 'give', 'us', 'bare', 'minimum', 'tax', 'us', 'beyond', 'imagination', 'steal', 'us', 'charge', 'us', 'stole']"
"['society', 'today', 'prison', 'like', 'us', 'better', 'us', 'say', 'wrong', 'difference', 'havent', 'gotten', 'caught']"
"['longer', 'incarceration', 'drawn', 'bitter', 'sick', 'becoming', 'trump', 'done', 'many', 'improve', 'extended', 'ruined']"
"['dont', 'give', 'us']"
"['cause', 'feel', 'pushing']"
"['seeing', 'true', 'colors']"
['wrong']
"['see', 'free', 'world', 'think', 'locked', 'throw', 'away', 'feel', 'close', 'giving', 'job', 'save', 'money', 'able', 'help', 'get']"
"['due', 'incarceration', 'feel', 'certain', 'profile', 'racism', 'comes', 'faze']"
[]
"['really', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'incarceration', 'way', 'state', 'follow', 'federal', 'start', 'paying', 'attention', 'expect', 'us', 'follow', 'law']"
"['yes', 'general', 'intentional', 'learning', 'nationally']"
"['decided', 'direct', 'affect', 'upon', 'direct', 'affect', 'cause', 'pay', 'attention', 'law', 'making']"
"['stop', 'person', 'voting']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'become', 'important', 'issue']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'still', 'well', 'good', 'time', 'learning']"
"['made', 'aware', 'feel', 'especially', 'lower', 'class']"
['yes']
"['prison', 'shown', 'system', 'rehabilitation', 'reform', 'law', 'abiding', 'fact', 'accurate', 'matter', 'worse', 'charge', 'care', 'price', 'comes', 'long', 'need', 'focus', 'prison', 'system', 'create', 'better', 'upon', 'release', 'well', 'versed', 'society']"
"['look', 'much', 'news', 'like', 'know', 'whats', 'happen']"
['impeachment']
"['young', 'basically', 'opinion', 'older', 'growing', 'future', 'future', 'society']"
"['one', 'fund', 'many', 'money', 'go', 'elderly', 'tax', 'plus', 'prison', 'system', 'one', 'behind', 'scam', 'cheat', 'country', 'considered', 'human', 'matter', 'crime', 'far', 'outdated']"
"['give', 'crap', 'politics', 'president', 'anything', 'related', 'care', 'whats', 'going', 'us', 'handling', 'every', 'situation', 'keep', 'great']"
"['self', 'agenda', 'anything', 'make', 'kind', 'money', 'self', 'super', 'rich']"
['distrust']
"['thought', 'justice', 'system', 'worked', 'thought', 'case', 'correct', 'sentence', 'given', 'case', 'minimum', 'play', 'option', 'downward', 'depart', 'various', 'number', 'one', 'reason', 'time', 'offender', 'anyway', 'quickly', 'learned', 'system', 'political', 'slam', 'dunk', 'case', 'deserve', 'wish', 'could', 'contribute', 'society', 'could', 'vote', 'would', 'research']"
"['feel', 'state', 'know', 'answer', 'fix', 'wish', 'look', 'weak', 'make', 'inmate', 'look', 'like', 'real', 'bad', 'hope']"
"['affect', 'much', 'civilian']"
"['seem', 'time', 'actually', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'like', 'seeing']"
"['time', 'seeing', 'impact', 'us']"
"['reason', 'understand', 'effect', 'us', 'important', 'largely', 'uninformed']"
"['would', 'middle', 'ground', 'come', 'understand', 'system', 'un', 'fair', 'live', 'life', 'right', 'care', 'environment', 'extreme', 'way', 'trying', 'force', 'us', 'believe', 'us', 'worker', 'rest', 'despise', 'fact', 'us', 'collude', 'illegal', 'control', 'us', 'accuse', 'falsely', 'must', 'protect', 'second', 'class', 'bay', 'little', 'second']"
"['system', 'since', 'incarceration', 'come', 'across', 'wrong']"
"['crime', 'actually', 'innocent', 'become', 'interested', 'finding', 'hold', 'corrupt', 'wrongfully', 'responsible', 'oversee', 'think', 'constitutional', 'suppose', 'protect', 'poor', 'like', 'prove', 'without', 'shadow', 'doubt', 'dirty', 'prosecution', 'knowingly', 'used', 'false', 'evidence', 'obtain', 'conviction', 'turning', 'judicial', 'system', 'climate', 'corruption']"
"['dealing', 'politics', 'judicial', 'system']"
"['lot', 'even', 'explain', 'self']"
"['trump', 'got', 'gas', 'done', 'country', 'far', 'gas', 'done', 'much', 'country', 'done', 'country', 'raise', 'mention', 'raise', 'selfish', 'trump', 'also', 'us', 'go', 'war', 'brought', 'back', 'lot', 'fir']"
"['change', 'outcome', 'sentence']"
"['understanding', 'one', 'time']"
"['vote', 'specific', 'person']"
"['well', 'think', 'hard', 'giving', 'time']"
"['able', 'slow', 'see', 'whats', 'going']"
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['incarceration', 'change', 'learned', 'much', 'informed', 'perspective', 'opine']"
"['learning', 'politics']"
"['see', 'fall', 'worse', 'new', 'ways', 'tend', 'greater']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'country']"
"['yes', 'ignorant', 'make', 'business', 'inform', 'comment', 'incarceration', 'way', 'become', 'publicity', 'stunt', 'forgot', 'point', 'help']"
"['president', 'country', 'distasteful']"
"['see', 'much', 'ago']"
"['see', 'product', 'broken', 'system', 'see', 'hand', 'forgotten', 'population', 'need', 'help', 'cage']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'difference', 'democrat', 'republican']"
"['living', 'dangerous', 'times', 'former', 'felon', 'seen', 'outcast', 'result', 'crime', 'label', 'hard', 'get', 'hired', 'hard', 'get', 'place', 'live', 'despite', 'time']"
"['understand', 'importance', 'prison', 'reform', 'instead', 'locking']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'research', 'see', 'much', 'political', 'impact', 'country']"
"['see', 'bad', 'justice', 'system', 'also', 'many', 'related']"
"['never', 'ran', 'country', 'see', 'impact', 'poor', 'caught', 'system']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'happing', 'world', 'read', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'today', 'want', 'change', 'change']"
['whatever']
"['absolutely', 'world']"
"['use', 'found', 'someone', 'get', 'stay', 'behind']"
"['much', 'moderate']"
[]
"['think', 'everyone']"
"['strongly', 'drawn', 'republican', 'seen']"
['yes']
"['tend', 'open', 'minded', 'point', 'view']"
"['well', 'becoming', 'informed', 'political', 'stance', 'democratic', 'republican', 'due', 'understanding', 'economic', 'situation', 'greatly', 'affected', 'abuse', 'government', 'aide']"
"['wish', 'know', 'regarding', 'state', 'country']"
"['used', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'care']"
"['dont', 'want', 'prison', 'reform', 'make', 'think']"
"['understand', 'passing', 'certain', 'target', 'black', 'brown']"
"['collaboration', 'information']"
"['become', 'interested', 'sides', 'daily', 'basis', 'make', 'informed']"
"['time', 'think', 'study']"
"['said', 'tried', 'get', 'treatment', 'need', 'prevent', 'suicide', 'eleven', 'would', 'received', 'treatment', 'little', 'problem', 'tea', 'party', 'republican', 'state', 'fight', 'tooth', 'nail', 'every', 'little', 'bit', 'treatment', 'received']"
['aware']
['person']
"['know', 'much', 'voice', 'would', 'make', 'back', 'got', 'bur', 'get']"
"['yes', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'look', 'world']"
"['need', 'make', 'office', 'say', 'going', 'office', 'instead', 'false']"
"['god', 'kingdom', 'come']"
"['side', 'prison', 'seen', 'picture', 'media', 'painted']"
"['straight', 'knowledge', 'understanding', 'grown', 'greatly']"
"['truly', 'wish', 'vote', 'maybe', 'vote', 'would', 'make', 'difference', 'country', 'yes']"
"['much', 'interested', 'prison', 'reform', 'issue', 'need', 'better', 'chance', 'suppose', 'department', 'key', 'corrected', 'better', 'return', 'society', 'role']"
"['feel', 'towards', 'independent']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'government', 'concern', 'want', 'help', 'us', 'succeed', 'upon', 'release', 'admire', 'trump', 'stand', 'prison', 'reform']"
['unsure']
"['lot', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'political']"
"['democrat', 'republican']"
"['god', 'life', 'many']"
"['lock', 'time', 'look', 'whole', 'picture']"
"['seeing', 'different', 'side']"
"['used', 'think', 'didnt', 'matter', 'going', 'put', 'whoever', 'want', 'office', 'di', 'see', 'voice', 'opinion', 'despite', 'crime']"
"['would', 'like', 'see', 'change', 'inside', 'come', 'back']"
"['treat', 'equally', 'spend', 'time', 'court', 'time', 'get', 'correct']"
"['hate', 'state', 'done']"
"['use', 'ignorant', 'really', 'look', 'would', 'talk', 'whether', 'trustworthy', 'pay', 'attention', 'speaking', 'homework']"
"['system', 'meant', 'anyone', 'even', 'still', 'going', 'hold', 'past', 'us', 'say', 'send', 'us', 'corrected', 'dont', 'even', 'look', 'see', 'even', 'better', 'want', 'keep', 'us', 'parole', 'serve', 'time', 'legal', 'system', 'shouldnt', 'anything', 'wi']"
"['well', 'instead', 'voting', 'need', 'fixing', 'sending', 'state', 'privately', 'human']"
"['throw', 'anyone', 'prison']"
"['incarceration', 'ignorant', 'politics', 'individual', 'family', 'could', 'subject', 'given', 'day', 'education', 'gun', 'public', 'aid', 'min', 'wage', 'subjected', 'judicial', 'time', 'read', 'political', 'informed', 'importance', 'knowledgeable', 'involved', 'making']"
"['yes', 'used', 'care', 'either', 'way']"
"['good', 'time', 'needs', 'raised']"
['yes']
['think']
"['thought', 'system', 'help', 'got', 'trouble', 'soon', 'found', 'case', 'later', 'life', 'good', 'good', 'lawyer', 'told', 'government', 'many', 'ways', 'set', 'place', 'come', 'along', 'something', 'like', 'house', 'state', 'rep', 'get', 'keep', 'seat', 'lower', 'standing', 'sat', 'told', 'quota', 'must', 'make', 'example', 'would', 'plead', 'sentence', 'prison', 'son', 'local', 'da', 'could', 'get', 'probation', 'revolving', 'door', 'move', 'us', 'want', 'society', 'marked', 'even', 'still', 'dont', 'help', 'real', 'fact', 'system', 'seriously', 'set', 'motion', 'always', 'wanting', 'make', 'money', 'lie', 'dont']"
"['number', 'used', 'political', 'gain']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'vote', 'since']"
"['innocent', 'man', 'prison', 'something', 'need', 'one', 'fight', 'innocent', 'man', 'prison']"
"['think', 'wrong', 'system']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'thought', 'race', 'divided', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'paying', 'attention', 'government', 'news']"
"['know', 'innocent', 'case', 'even', 'medical', 'evidence', 'proving', 'male', 'sex', 'case', 'found', 'guilty', 'without', 'circumstantial', 'physical', 'electronic', 'photographic', 'evidence', 'despite', 'accuser', 'never', 'told', 'tale', 'twice', 'see', 'clearly', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'complete', 'overhaul', 'justice', 'thought', 'everybody', 'deserved', 'innocent', 'trying', 'escape', 'guilt', 'case', 'see', 'differently']"
"['nut', 'shell', 'human', 'race', 'prison', 'politics', 'government']"
"['pay', 'closer', 'attention', 'world', 'politics', 'still', 'view', 'deceitful', 'hidden', 'agenda']"
"['never', 'anything', 'politics', 'idea', 'effect', 'political', 'group']"
"['attention', 'news']"
"['yea', 'news', 'informed', 'going', 'theyre', 'community', 'country']"
"['probably', 'never', 'get', 'need', 'help', 'maybe', 'drug', 'problem']"
"['longer', 'care']"
"['hate', 'government', 'want', 'left', 'alone']"
"['many', 'nutshell', 'would', 'say', 'educated', 'prison', 'good', 'insight', 'think', 'part', 'process', 'still', 'tax', 'representation']"
"['way', 'prison']"
"['time', 'see', 'crap', 'political', 'system', 'poor', 'uneducated']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'see', 'different']"
"['everyone', 'past', 'believe', 'second', 'used', 'think', 'different', 'change']"
"['trump', 'best', 'country', 'since']"
"['like', 'free']"
"['see', 'bad', 'system']"
"['follow', 'politics', 'streets']"
"['used', 'probably', 'majority', 'though', 'always', 'actually', 'innocent', 'wrongly', 'maliciously', 'thats', 'deserve', 'well', 'time', 'prison', 'come', 'know', 'many', 'sons', 'many', 'prison', 'unfortunately', 'rest', 'made', 'one', 'stupid', 'mistake', 'took', 'little', 'longer', 'innocent', 'made', 'one', 'stupid', 'mistake', 'rest', 'life', 'well', 'get', 'prison', 'cant', 'cope', 'commit', 'suicide', 'become', 'criminal', 'whose', 'back', 'know', 'comfortable']"
"['much', 'tuned', 'political', 'climate', 'find', 'hard', 'express']"
"['went', 'prison', 'learned', 'firm', 'taught', 'lot', 'news']"
"['time', 'half', 'century', 'finally', 'got', 'witness', 'someone', 'like', 'trump', 'actually', 'wonderful']"
"['feel', 'like', 'ever', 'since', 'incarceration', 'different']"
"['feel', 'pick', 'side', 'black', 'white', 'dont', 'take', 'time', 'look', 'best']"
"['actually', 'believe', 'degree', 'would', 'like', 'fix', 'point', 'therefore', 'would', 'probably', 'listen', 'case', 'vote']"
"['always', 'making', 'better', 'rather', 'education', 'good', 'time', 'helping', 'prepare', 'civilized', 'regardless', 'race', 'always', 'helping', 'nation', 'better']"
"['growing', 'concerned', 'community', 'care', 'president', 'going', 'next', 'try']"
['open']
"['keep', 'getting', 'keep', 'worrying', 'wrong', 'think', 'time', 'godsend', 'important', 'need', 'done', 'done', 'instead', 'really', 'matter']"
"['government', 'wrong']"
['comment']
['vote']
"['voice', 'maybe', 'would', 'benefit']"
[]
[]
['informed']
"['helping', 'need', 'government', 'look']"
"['one', 'prey', 'several', 'manipulative', 'tactics', 'politics', 'well', 'vote', 'crucial', 'part', 'political', 'system', 'vote', 'take', 'official', 'like', 'prison', 'one', 'must', 'learn', 'look', 'past', 'grandeur', 'splendor', 'order', 'discover', 'true', 'test', 'veracity', 'said', 'downfall', 'greed', 'discover', 'certain', 'suffer', 'vulnerability', 'corruption', 'combine', 'greed', 'politics', 'one', 'discover', 'really', 'position', 'feel', 'critical', 'start', 'paying', 'attention', 'really', 'said', 'potential', 'make', 'rational', 'instead']"
"['thought', 'longer', 'would', 'help', 'wrong', 'help', 'change', 'willing', 'greatly', 'change', 'hearts', 'punishment', 'system', 'like', 'society', 'lock', 'sometimes', 'forget']"
[]
"['always', 'agreed', 'see', 'interested', 'helping', 'reform', 'hate', 'us', 'also', 'fail', 'see', 'lack', 'serious', 'need', 'mental', 'health', 'research', 'treatment', 'need', 'real', 'help']"
"['simply', 'friend', 'since', 'often', 'declared', 'prison', 'judicial', 'reform', 'found', 'true', 'equally', 'uninterested', 'real', 'reform', 'interested', 'change', 'departmental', 'leadership']"
"['become', 'aware', 'importance', 'voting', 'run', 'platform']"
"['attention', 'used', 'think', 'locked', 'deserved', 'whatever', 'treat', 'way', 'realize', 'history', 'complex', 'political', 'system', 'either', 'value', 'look', 'past', 'surface', 'said', 'lean', 'guidance', 'spirit', 'inside', 'open', 'think', 'feel']"
"['informed', 'concerning', 'political', 'realm', 'inner']"
"['want', 'make', 'know', 'state', 'law', 'every', 'day', 'benefit', 'needs', 'prison', 'number', 'slave']"
"['believe', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'minimum', 'custody', 'need', 'reduce', 'prison', 'population', 'needs', 'good', 'time']"
"['difficult', 'politically', 'country', 'get']"
"['care', 'office']"
"['use', 'think', 'prison', 'many', 'without', 'money', 'afford', 'real', 'lawyer', 'part', 'wont', 'go', 'prison', 'get', 'much', 'less', 'time', 'system', 'rich', 'poor']"
"['trump', 'made', 'country', 'look', 'bad']"
"['yes', 'seeing', 'hand']"
"['getting', 'locked', 'never', 'really', 'thought', 'politics', 'since', 'watch', 'news', 'every', 'day', 'speak', 'sister', 'politics', 'understanding', 'much', 'better']"
"['didnt', 'understand', 'prison', 'system', 'nation', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'part', 'system', 'see', 'daily', 'feel', 'would', 'never', 'vote', 'hard', 'problem', 'would', 'support', 'offender', 'change', 'world', 'change', 'person']"
"['used', 'believe', 'fair', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'right', 'thing', 'learned', 'money', 'power']"
"['politics', 'ever', 'see', 'power', 'voting']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'care', 'life', 'could', 'manage', 'get', 'damn', 'near', 'get', 'decent', 'job', 'help', 'stay', 'line', 'middle', 'class', 'scrap', 'dirty', 'stuff', 'stay', 'afloat', 'everything', 'need', 'buy', 'going', 'price', 'pay', 'stays', 'way', 'long', 'us', 'rich', 'better', 'us', 'smart', 'rich', 'struggle', 'cause', 'fight', 'fot', 'stance', 'society']"
"['become', 'informed', 'since']"
"['yea', 'found', 'dont', 'care']"
[]
"['feel', 'way', 'far', 'go']"
"['use', 'belive', 'serve', 'entire', 'sentence', 'experienced', 'unlawful', 'prison', 'physically', 'forced', 'serve', 'years', 'day']"
"['skewed', 'toward', 'certain', 'unfairly', 'unjustly']"
"['watch', 'going', 'busy', 'life']"
"['concerned', 'prison']"
"['see', 'feel', 'greater', 'need', 'support', 'support', 'stand', 'firmly', 'truth']"
"['know', 'whats', 'real']"
"['seen', 'lot', 'unjust']"
"['feel', 'like', 'everyone', 'locked', 'chance', 'vote']"
"['used', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'taken', 'time', 'watch', 'learn', 'little', 'also', 'future']"
"['cause', 'see', 'need', 'reform', 'prison']"
['yes']
"['informed', 'form', 'opinion']"
"['locked', 'forced', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'general', 'watching']"
"['aware', 'power', 'collective', 'voice', 'used', 'make', 'felt', 'necessary', 'aware', 'willing', 'involved', 'way', 'allow']"
"['effect', 'us', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'got', 'lock', 'didnt', 'time', 'politics', 'search', 'best', 'country', 'participate', 'see', 'voting', 'make', 'great']"
"['seen', 'different', 'angle', 'treatment', 'face', 'think', 'petty', 'offender', 'serve', 'prison', 'time', 'knowing', 'full', 'extent', 'prison', 'sentence', 'would', 'person', 'period', 'time']"
"['see', 'cultural']"
"['yes', 'change', 'dew', 'long', 'time', 'ago', 'hurt', 'help', 'percentage', 'would', 'help', 'someone', 'get']"
"['since', 'become', 'adult', 'rather', 'say', 'political', 'would', 'say', 'political', 'standing', 'know', 'exactly', 'stand', 'touch', 'politics', 'though']"
"['incarceration', 'didnt', 'since', 'time', 'inform', 'educate', 'many', 'affect', 'family']"
"['know', 'power', 'seek', 'divide', 'us', 'yet', 'claim', 'desire', 'unite', 'us', 'ever', 'one', 'nation', 'god']"
"['become', 'conservative']"
"['political', 'cannot', 'vote']"
"['less', 'aware', 'reality', 'entertainment']"
"['never', 'part', 'criminal', 'system', 'idea', 'bad', 'country', 'honorably', 'crime', 'commit', 'cried', 'innocence', 'whole', 'time', 'hit', 'head']"
"['came', 'prison', 'young', 'yrs', 'old', 'older', 'wiser', 'mind', 'republican', 'one', 'middle', 'ground', 'ground', 'exist']"
"['yes', 'care', 'stuff', 'see', 'important', 'vote', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'wasnt', 'worried']"
"['see', 'adult', 'time', 'grow', 'instead', 'young']"
[]
"['watching', 'politics', 'streets']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'republican', 'even', 'though', 'think', 'would', 'likely', 'help', 'religious', 'religious', 'fall', 'towards', 'republican']"
"['find', 'conservative', 'days']"
['care']
['never']
"['many', 'political', 'give', 'small', 'petty', 'time', 'prison', 'instead', 'helping', 'reform', 'help', 'productive', 'giving']"
"['sue', 'think', 'president', 'dumb', 'racist', 'stand', 'point', 'view']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'say', 'know', 'saying', 'something']"
"['used', 'every', 'new', 'weapon', 'military', 'could', 'design', 'feel', 'built', 'could', 'use', 'strength', 'always', 'good', 'philosophy']"
"['think', 'much', 'voting', 'look', 'face', 'daily', 'bases', 'understand', 'importance', 'voting']"
[]
"['yes', 'somewhat', 'everything', 'different', 'inside', 'way', 'personally', 'look', 'politic', 'politics', 'like', 'instead', 'two', 'main', 'political', 'like', 'two', 'big', 'fighting', 'territory', 'interest', 'also', 'know', 'interest', 'power', 'way', 'might', 'gain', 'sort', 'interest', 'may', 'right', 'vote']"
"['criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'works', 'rich', 'famous', 'comes', 'mind', 'quarter', 'poor', 'person', 'advantage', 'example', 'court', 'work', 'trying', 'convict', 'balance', 'poor', 'get', 'get', 'country', 'club', 'twenty', 'thirty', 'days', 'special', 'provision', 'actually', 'prison']"
"['please', 'refer', 'previous', 'answer']"
"['see', 'clearly']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'want', 'system', 'world', 'put', 'right', 'make', 'right', 'system', 'country']"
"['bad', 'prison', 'pretty', 'nice', 'got', 'bad', 'got', 'caught', 'innocent', 'need', 'stay', 'need', 'better', 'good', 'time', 'release', 'drug']"
"['yes', 'think', 'less', 'prison', 'reform', 'used', 'look', 'person', 'crime', 'still', 'work', 'prison', 'believe', 'locking', 'everyone', 'year', 'old', 'prior', 'add', 'time', 'current', 'conviction', 'already', 'time', 'current', 'sentence', 'double']"
"['used', 'naive', 'view', 'towards', 'politics', 'thinking', 'best', 'mind', 'course', 'could', 'hold', 'true', 'small', 'percentage', 'attempt', 'better', 'power', 'station', 'majority', 'power', 'divided', 'country']"
"['id', 'rather', 'involved', 'id', 'love', 'teach', 'much', 'honor', 'involved', 'citizen', 'crime', 'wish', 'could', 'erase']"
"['say', 'politics', 'nation']"
[]
"['switched', 'democrat', 'instead', 'libertarian', 'conservatism', 'social', 'aspect']"
"['insight', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'shown', 'flawed', 'much', 'needs']"
"['think', 'trying', 'help', 'prison', 'last', 'time']"
"['outside', 'see', 'really', 'goes', 'prison', 'way', 'different', 'time', 'prison', 'see', 'read']"
"['know', 'justice', 'system', 'works', 'dealt', 'seen', 'inside', 'also', 'hear', 'many', 'see', 'many']"
"['although', 'watch', 'keep', 'think', 'differently', 'would', 'like', 'see', 'state', 'country']"
"['never', 'prison', 'reform', 'coming', 'prison']"
['know']
['war']
"['chose', 'vote', 'candidate', 'express', 'never', 'check', 'back', 'track']"
"['radical', 'left', 'liberal', 'communist', 'scum']"
"['give', 'chance', 'vote', 'like', 'trump', 'never', 'get', 'office']"
['slightly']
"['two', 'raised', 'since', 'day', 'born', 'got', 'woman', 'since', 'high', 'company', 'amazing', 'woman', 'never', 'thought', 'would', 'life', 'time', 'life', 'political', 'crime', 'thought', 'deserved', 'punishment', 'crime', 'little', 'know', 'time', 'always', 'respect', 'law', 'country', 'always', 'still', 'knowing', 'lot', 'situation', 'crime', 'never', 'say', 'hope', 'innocence']"
"['teen', 'locked', 'political', 'led', 'economist', 'support', 'catholic']"
"['given', 'clear', 'view']"
"['thinking', 'great', 'amount']"
"['yes', 'person', 'thats', 'system', 'since', 'prison', 'reform', 'could', 'ago', 'never', 'topic', 'discussion', 'seen', 'instead', 'time', 'push', 'get', 'high', 'school', 'diploma', 'time', 'kept', 'telling', 'sentence', 'long', 'get', 'diploma', 'finally', 'able', 'apply', 'get', 'imagine', 'dont', 'motivation', 'keep', 'focus', 'opportunity', 'better', 'self', 'system', 'still', 'training', 'help', 'thats', 'whoever', 'read', 'please', 'help', 'us']"
"['seeing', 'party', 'better', 'agenda']"
"['yes', 'grew', 'time', 'going', 'generation', 'back', 'although', 'one', 'thing', 'always', 'true', 'level', 'racism', 'united', 'like', 'nothing', 'little', 'thing', 'freedom', 'expression', 'fat', 'office', 'worried', 'got', 'money']"
[]
"['dont', 'care']"
"['since', 'locked', 'able', 'notice', 'certain', 'didnt']"
"['strongly', 'right', 'thing', 'trump', 'believe', 'right', 'thing', 'us', 'left', 'get', 'office']"
"['official', 'behind', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['locked', 'legal', 'system', 'right', 'thing', 'see', 'making', 'career', 'move', 'forward']"
"['see', 'society', 'underbelly', 'lied', 'would', 'never', 'thought', 'would', 'treat', 'harshly', 'based', 'sex', 'offender', 'right', 'next', 'treat', 'different', 'give', 'second', 'chance', 'real', 'second', 'chance']"
"['knowledge', 'many', 'politic', 'seen', 'ignorant', 'affect', 'life']"
"['watch', 'reading', 'newspaper']"
"['see', 'need', 'make', 'incarceration', 'also', 'see', 'sides', 'prison', 'prison', 'reform', 'previously']"
"['see', 'running', 'county', 'fake', 'news', 'come']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'case', 'made', 'one', 'wrong', 'choice', 'suffer', 'rest', 'life', 'right']"
"['didnt', 'opinion', 'interest']"
"['never', 'politics', 'like']"
"['personal', 'view']"
"['think', 'raised', 'united', 'leave', 'alone', 'rip', 'away', 'united', 'criminal', 'something', 'wrong', 'get', 'sent', 'another', 'never', 'life', 'life', 'danger', 'country']"
['system']
"['system', 'waste', 'little', 'prepare', 'anyone', 'return', 'society', 'especially', 'financially', 'failure', 'without', 'money']"
"['cause', 'way', 'help', 'put', 'point', 'would', 'listen']"
['yes']
[]
"['lot', 'knowledge', 'see']"
"['need', 'new', 'president']"
"['prison', 'time', 'opportunity', 'reflect', 'read', 'self', 'educate', 'freed', 'core', 'realization', 'decline', 'inevitable', 'historical', 'event', 'politics', 'cannot', 'stop', 'even', 'strictly', 'self', 'interested']"
"['well', 'used', 'believe', 'belief', 'system', 'based', 'democratic', 'perspective', 'research', 'republican']"
['somewhat']
"['seen', 'political', 'power', 'care', 'world', 'man', 'come', 'visit', 'fifteen', 'think', 'know', 'prison', 'like', 'dont', 'see', 'rape', 'mistreatment', 'state', 'office', 'stand', 'nothing', 'spend', 'money', 'send', 'state', 'money', 'help', 'learn', 'trade', 'get', 'help', 'need', 'final', 'office', 'simply', 'dont', 'care']"
"['conservative', 'strong', 'attitude']"
"['one', 'outside', 'busy', 'involved', 'didnt', 'get', 'really', 'sit', 'listen', 'agenda', 'since', 'time']"
"['lost', 'put', 'us', 'prison']"
"['listening', 'news']"
"['feel', 'lose']"
['family']
"['world', 'change', 'constantly']"
"['everything', 'got', 'ti', 'serve', 'time', 'done', 'make', 'money', 'state', 'helping', 'fix', 'bottom', 'line', 'corporation', 'stock', 'state', 'take', 'medical', 'company', 'charge', 'us', 'medical', 'help', 'company', 'stay', 'rate', 'charge', 'state', 'flat', 'rate', 'top', 'give', 'staff', 'spending', 'money', 'provided', 'care', 'make', 'money', 'care', 'word', 'state']"
"['time', 'think', 'think', 'would', 'best', 'country', 'whole', 'discovered', 'value', 'criminal', 'reform']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['become', 'aware', 'political', 'world', 'become', 'open', 'minded', 'certain']"
"['direction', 'desire', 'worry', 'future', 'generation', 'ability', 'continue', 'living', 'planet', 'time', 'thought', 'humanity', 'whole', 'individual', 'little', 'respect', 'habitat']"
"['want', 'change', 'feel', 'like', 'important', 'apart', 'change', 'nothing', 'time', 'educate', 'self', 'stuff', 'really', 'didnt', 'even', 'matter', 'grew', 'neighborhood', 'never', 'expressed', 'stress', 'us', 'important', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'everything', 'considered', 'us']"
[]
"['felon', 'feel', 'like', 'dont', 'say', 'country', 'right', 'vote', 'taken', 'away']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'trump', 'deserve', 'president', 'power']"
"['definitely', 'president', 'person']"
[]
"['reason', 'war']"
"['become', 'aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['see', 'going', 'country', 'needs', 'done', 'however', 'need', 'stop', 'fighting', 'work', 'together']"
[]
"['used', 'think', 'power', 'bad', 'general', 'come', 'figure', 'thinking']"
"['seen', 'much', 'really', 'petty', 'also', 'think', 'get', 'away', 'nothing', 'electoral', 'vote', 'mandatory', 'thirty', 'house', 'due', 'extreme', 'lack', 'vote', 'way', 'anything', 'need', 'less', 'extreme', 'sided']"
"['longer', 'judge', 'worst', 'thing', 'done', 'understand', 'often', 'criminal', 'justice', 'causing', 'nominally', 'designed', 'prevent', 'easily', 'acknowledged', 'system', 'continent', 'spending', 'time', 'close', 'proximity', 'actually', 'like', 'see', 'humanity', 'easier', 'understand', 'often', 'attribute', 'specific', 'individual', 'large', 'part', 'responsibility', 'society', 'choose', 'treat', 'mental', 'health', 'like', 'remember', 'criminal', 'justice', 'definition', 'reactionary', 'prevention', 'longer', 'actually', 'think']"
"['cause', 'time', 'sit', 'really', 'listen', 'say', 'effect', 'us', 'prison']"
"['another', 'view', 'world', 'really', 'gone', 'albe', 'live', 'life', 'without', 'worry', 'certain', 'skin', 'color']"
"['becoming', 'sober', 'fifteen', 'ago', 'element', 'behind', 'answer']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'democrat', 'talking', 'prison', 'reform', 'dont', 'interest', 'lower', 'class', 'dont', 'seem', 'care']"
"['time', 'engage', 'politics', 'raised', 'yet', 'attention', 'gave', 'time', 'brought', 'reality', 'pettiness', 'even', 'ever', 'window', 'madness', 'keep', 'past']"
"['hard', 'find', 'solution', 'mass', 'get', 'hand', 'view', 'system']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'political', 'yeara', 'old', 'upon', 'arrest', 'knowing', 'us', 'top', 'curious', 'formed', 'order', 'pass', 'came', 'believe', 'would', 'actually', 'gotten', 'involved', 'politics', 'high', 'white', 'house', 'material', 'congress', 'something', 'make', 'impact', 'society']"
"['yeah', 'look', 'president', 'trump', 'got', 'world']"
"['cause', 'one', 'side', 'prison', 'reform', 'pass', 'lessen', 'drug']"
"['realize', 'matter', 'vote', 'seem', 'fail', 'us', 'way', 'important', 'tend', 'make', 'us', 'seem']"
"['never', 'politics', 'realize', 'voice', 'never', 'used', 'never', 'use']"
"['look', 'bad', 'compare', 'hell', 'hole', 'modern', 'day', 'plantation', 'wouldnt', 'want', 'better', 'poor']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'see', 'need', 'fot']"
"['wish', 'could', 'voice']"
"['never', 'politics', 'untill', 'sent', 'prison']"
"['desire', 'speak', 'gain', 'understanding', 'strongly', 'wish', 'support', 'political', 'world', 'stand']"
"['willing', 'help', 'us', 'system']"
"['strong', 'republican', 'incarceration', 'sides', 'enjoy', 'contract', 'money']"
"['see', 'system', 'run', 'inside', 'dont', 'agree', 'get', 'prison', 'get', 'know', 'little', 'help', 'get', 'even', 'time', 'crime', 'still', 'get', 'upon', 'hard', 'time', 'getting', 'living', 'good', 'life']"
"['start', 'locked', 'whole', 'life', 'old', 'man', 'look', 'different']"
['yes']
"['could', 'care', 'less', 'went', 'world', 'incarceration', 'gave', 'time', 'never', 'watched', 'news', 'thing', 'taken', 'away', 'local', 'national', 'next', 'president', 'going', 'change', 'treat', 'highly', 'doubt', 'mostly', 'negative', 'punishment', 'discipline', 'true', 'discipline', 'right', 'behavior']"
"['pay', 'close', 'attention', 'normally', 'look', 'good', 'tone']"
"['willfully', 'chosen', 'read', 'politics', 'government', 'history', 'thereof']"
"['time', 'become', 'informed', 'also', 'trying', 'make', 'world', 'better', 'place', 'anyway', 'really', 'country', 'need', 'change', 'never', 'knew', 'growing', 'government', 'terrible', 'happen', 'us', 'system', 'systematically', 'corruption', 'low', 'level', 'doc', 'various']"
"['see', 'whats', 'one', 'likely', 'even', 'fake', 'twisted', 'bias', 'politically']"
[]
"['longer', 'mental', 'slavery']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'system', 'needs', 'graded', 'help']"
"['justice', 'world']"
"['learning', 'represent']"
"['dot', 'feel', 'voice']"
"['time', 'talk', 'politics', 'learned', 'lot', 'different', 'actually', 'going', 'country', 'help', 'change']"
"['since', 'gone', 'hill', 'fast']"
"['seen', 'hand', 'crazy', 'say', 'office', 'change', 'nothing', 'better', 'anybody', 'except', 'trump', 'done', 'anyone', 'else', 'since']"
"['pay', 'going']"
"['think', 'important', 'voting', 'especially', 'promote', 'wanting', 'person', 'office', 'believe', 'reform', 'judicial', 'system', 'properly', 'giving', 'certain', 'lesser', 'criminal', 'history']"
"['become', 'aware']"
"['life', 'went', 'socioeconomic', 'status', 'sex', 'offender', 'prison']"
"['becoming', 'individual', 'much', 'politics', 'group', 'call', 'reaching', 'within', 'didnt', 'fully', 'understand', 'politics', 'help']"
"['yes', 'crime', 'commit', 'even', 'judge', 'record', 'saying', 'testimony', 'proven', 'court', 'anyone', 'easily', 'see', 'given', 'yrs', 'basically', 'going', 'third', 'base', 'woman', 'lied', 'try', 'save', 'marriage', 'inks', 'rape', 'judge', 'said', 'thought', 'sentence', 'harsh', 'go', 'set', 'jury', 'retired', 'courthouse', 'case', 'several', 'public', 'defender', 'cross', 'stand', 'behind', 'trial', 'strategy', 'almost', 'unimpeachable', 'several', 'small', 'new', 'trial', 'corruption', 'justice', 'yrs', 'able', 'afford', 'real', 'lawyer', 'yes']"
"['interested', 'politics', 'never']"
"['lost', 'respect', 'system', 'reform', 'rehabilitation', 'much', 'money', 'set', 'aside', 'education', 'continue', 'vicious', 'cycle']"
"['able', 'keep', 'lately']"
['many']
"['political', 'whether', 'republican', 'shadiness', 'either', 'party', 'really']"
['prison']
"['could', 'made', 'different']"
"['look', 'view', 'prison', 'job', 'per', 'month', 'per', 'inmate', 'would', 'help', 'keeping', 'prison', 'keeping', 'working', 'feel', 'something', 'pay', 'help', 'side', 'crime', 'would', 'go', 'like', 'bib', 'leadership', 'toast', 'help', 'plus', 'want', 'educate', 'like', 'getting', 'degree', 'cant', 'afford', 'every', 'class', 'get', 'much', 'start', 'right', 'racist', 'certain', 'let', 'able', 'chance', 'life', 'like', 'mine', 'wouldnt', 'involved', 'go', 'try', 'show', 'proof', 'finally', 'clear', 'name', 'didnt', 'want', 'address', 'court', 'prison']"
"['tend', 'see', 'much', 'right', 'change', 'wide']"
['nope']
"['love', 'trump', 'done', 'still', 'could']"
"['prone', 'believe', 'ownership', 'type', 'also', 'current', 'drug', 'incarceration', 'working', 'get', 'different', 'type', 'incarceration']"
"['also', 'consider', 'criminal', 'reform']"
"['watch', 'feel', 'voice', 'inside', 'prison', 'system', 'would', 'change', 'mind', 'us']"
"['sex', 'parole', 'registration']"
"['attention', 'politics', 'sense', 'incarceration']"
"['political', 'lean', 'conservative', 'liberal']"
['think']
"['used', 'really', 'care']"
"['knowledge', 'life', 'political', 'make', 'know', 'vote', 'voice', 'may', 'change', 'make']"
"['see', 'belong', 'simple']"
"['said', 'yes', 'seen', 'little', 'bit', 'president', 'political', 'stuff', 'like', 'politics', 'remember', 'going', 'try', 'listen', 'politics', 'even', 'try', 'go', 'college', 'undecided', 'politics']"
['conservative']
"['yes', 'change', 'use', 'talk', 'know', 'every']"
['st']
['keep']
['conservative']
"['support', 'alo', 'sin', 'democrat']"
['comment']
"['point', 'want', 'know', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'running']"
"['lot', 'time', 'sit', 'think', 'pro', 'legalization', 'conservative', 'crime', 'ever', 'believe', 'men', 'need', 'time']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political', 'opinion', 'strong', 'desire', 'reform', 'scrap', 'entire', 'system', 'incarceration', 'punishment', 'worse', 'went', 'replace', 'intense', 'period', 'training', 'correct', 'habit', 'behavior', 'possible', 'may', 'happen', 'thirty', 'murder', 'case', 'join', 'therapeutic', 'last', 'two', 'prior', 'seeing', 'parole', 'board', 'department', 'policy', 'given', 'free', 'reign', 'create', 'plan', 'action', 'concerned', 'many', 'certainly', 'politically', 'active', 'ever']"
"['thirty', 'five', 'consecutive', 'lot', 'time', 'learn', 'change', 'understanding', 'middle', 'aged', 'adult']"
[]
['care']
"['want', 'keep', 'knowing', 'never', 'study', 'get', 'locked']"
"['able', 'gain', 'knowledge', 'politics', 'illusion', 'country', 'count', 'mean', 'anything']"
"['consider', 'gun', 'libertarian', 'incarceration', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system']"
"['dont', 'think', 'opinion', 'count']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'feel', 'drug', 'get', 'sentence']"
[]
"['one', 'word', 'trump']"
"['never', 'thought', 'voting', 'really', 'care', 'politics', 'think', 'affected', 'see', 'thought']"
[]
"['see', 'much', 'differently']"
"['really', 'dont', 'know']"
"['everything', 'incarceration', 'yo', 'upon', 'release']"
[]
"['came', 'system', 'young', 'age', 'old', 'passing']"
['know']
"['yes', 'much', 'informed', 'pay', 'attention', 'need', 'get', 'youth', 'educated', 'political']"
"['criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'political', 'sickness']"
"['dont', 'think', 'anyone']"
"['wasnt', 'much', 'politics', 'may', 'trump', 'era', 'political', 'side', 'general', 'population']"
"['health', 'care', 'needs', 'kill', 'unborn', 'need', 'look', 'teaching', 'incarceration', 'let', 'weed', 'crime', 'let', 'save', 'united', 'would', 'let', 'men', 'free']"
"['use', 'even', 'care', 'politics', 'pay', 'attention', 'depending', 'office', 'big', 'effect', 'nation', 'whole']"
"['used', 'pro', 'death', 'penalty', 'also', 'educated', 'read', 'watch', 'listen', 'news', 'quite', 'frequently']"
"['believe', 'one', 'person', 'vote', 'concern', 'politics', 'since', 'learned', 'duty', 'citizen', 'informed', 'participate', 'democracy']"
"['incarceration', 'really', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'grown', 'prison', 'read', 'study', 'greater', 'understanding', 'effects', 'politics', 'life']"
"['see', 'prison', 'violence', 'unfair', 'long', 'parole', 'violation', 'taken', 'serious', 'alone', 'deal', 'ignorance', 'extremely', 'dangerous', 'life']"
['really']
[]
"['believe', 'even', 'though', 'president', 'trump', 'different', 'believe', 'believe', 'done', 'black', 'ever']"
['vote']
"['used', 'believe', 'ideal', 'system', 'think', 'government', 'involved', 'individual', 'right', 'much']"
"['know', 'care']"
"['realization', 'every', 'inclination', 'reflected', 'refined', 'world', 'government', 'domain', 'choose', 'live', 'result', 'voter', 'according', 'amongst']"
[]
"['follow', 'political', 'stuff', 'often']"
"['seen', 'treat', 'system', 'dont', 'go', 'way']"
"['become', 'open', 'minded']"
[]
"['voting', 'better']"
"['insight', 'information', 'time', 'self']"
['none']
"['state', 'worry', 'federal', 'finding', 'example', 'built', 'new', 'prison', 'two', 'man', 'ten', 'cell', 'one', 'storage', 'locker', 'two']"
"['well', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'incarceration']"
"['word', 'republic', 'cant', 'see', 'going', 'change', 'time', 'soon', 'active', 'part', 'improve', 'make', 'positive', 'united']"
['know']
"['never', 'vote', 'vote', 'presidential', 'really', 'matter', 'electorial', 'college', 'system', 'state', 'local', 'vote', 'state', 'local']"
['prefer']
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political', 'pretty', 'strongly', 'believe', 'really', 'much', 'say', 'really', 'government', 'fear', 'worse', 'happening', 'agree']"
"['see', 'know', 'anything', 'needs', 'listen', 'care', 'give', 'voice', 'something', 'bad', 'happen']"
"['seen', 'business', 'correctional', 'system', 'commodity', 'human', 'inside', 'saw', 'see', 'outside', 'world']"
"['incarceration', 'favored', 'long', 'term', 'across', 'board', 'support']"
['aware']
"['pay', 'attention', 'going', 'community', 'country']"
"['guess', 'care']"
"['use', 'think', 'would', 'democrat', 'find', 'agreeing', 'instead', 'like', 'republican', 'actually', 'help']"
[]
"['apathetic', 'towards', 'needs', 'needs', 'fortunately', 'become', 'aware', 'history', 'facing', 'today']"
"['younger', 'teenage', 'use', 'gay', 'bash', 'race', 'bash', 'little', 'filled', 'arrogance', 'free', 'extreme', 'got', 'older', 'wiser', 'sit', 'back', 'hate', 'arrogant', 'believe', 'extent', 'one', 'able', 'please', 'within', 'reason', 'dont', 'break', 'dont', 'bully', 'help', 'get', 'know', 'problem', 'voiced', 'simply', 'dont', 'hate', 'gay', 'marriage', 'one', 'biggest', 'strongly', 'younger']"
"['formed', 'republic', 'nation', 'way', 'making', 'best', 'political', 'agenda']"
"['state', 'federal', 'god', 'like', 'control', 'society', 'censorship', 'art', 'control', 'parole', 'probation', 'read', 'watch', 'eat', 'educate', 'draw', 'create', 'write', 'look', 'learn', 'hear', 'decide', 'eat', 'let', 'us', 'cause', 'know', 'thinking', 'hearts', 'know', 'good', 'us', 'society']"
[]
"['done', 'criminal', 'minded', 'accept', 'keep', 'mentally', 'stand', 'department', 'stand', 'corruption', 'reform', 'rehabilitation', 'locked', 'away', 'forgotten']"
"['well', 'understand', 'ladder', 'change', 'senate', 'state', 'along', 'state', 'reps', 'come', 'agreement', 'common', 'issue', 'prison', 'reform', 'get', 'governor', 'everything', 'process']"
"['used', 'believe', 'justice', 'system', 'thinking', 'fine', 'rape', 'house', 'two', 'time', 'got', 'phone', 'call', 'come', 'home', 'sat', 'county', 'jail', 'seventeen', 'simply', 'ex', 'wife', 'said', 'crime', 'court', 'anything', 'said', 'going', 'even', 'keep', 'evidence', 'proving', 'innocence', 'sight', 'court', 'even', 'two', 'day', 'even', 'admitted', 'judge', 'testimony', 'evidence', 'whole', 'investigation', 'many', 'want', 'disclose', 'moment', 'room', 'yet', 'prison', 'crime', 'see', 'flawed', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system']"
[]
"['informed', 'give', 'better']"
"['public', 'prison', 'reform', 'growing', 'understanding', 'poverty', 'many', 'ways']"
"['voice', 'due', 'offender', 'status']"
"['politics', 'time', 'spend', 'solitary', 'confinement', 'politics', 'pushing', 'reform', 'help', 'want', 'better', 'person', 'help', 'men', 'see', 'lived', 'want', 'change', 'better', 'also', 'seeing', 'politics', 'affect', 'staff', 'important', 'good', 'office', 'help', 'staff', 'know', 'care', 'day', 'may', 'self', 'seen', 'hand', 'good', 'change', 'modify', 'behavior', 'think', 'less', 'willing', 'harm']"
['ken']
"['learned', 'republican', 'party', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'support', 'private', 'prison', 'industry', 'plus', 'united', 'punishment', 'pathway']"
['fairness']
"['yes', 'seem', 'sway', 'either', 'away', 'although', 'always', 'agree', 'also', 'disagree', 'much']"
"['becoming', 'familiar', 'multiple', 'even', 'seen', 'regional', 'within', 'country', 'every', 'way', 'worry', 'would', 'otherwise', 'forefront', 'give', 'understanding', 'human', 'condition', 'understanding', 'cannot', 'help', 'influence', 'political', 'self']"
"['impeachment', 'president', 'trump']"
[]
"['d_ù', 'ä_ù']"
"['die', 'hard', 'republican', 'life', 'never', 'partisan', 'stiff', 'necked', 'close', 'minded']"
"['care', 'little', 'man']"
"['time', 'prison', 'think', 'view', 'life', 'open', 'prison']"
"['seen', 'need', 'justice', 'reform', 'hand', 'long', 'seem', 'fit', 'crime', 'get', 'come', 'back', 'time', 'time', 'time', 'gone', 'month', 'see', 'back', 'either', 'parole', 'violation', 'new', 'case', 'obviously', 'something', 'right']"
"['used', 'anti', 'authority', 'around', 'bottom', 'society', 'long', 'made', 'see', 'good', 'us', 'simply', 'care', 'prison', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'key', 'needs', 'reform', 'drug', 'addiction', 'needs', 'depth', 'treatment', 'voluntary', 'program', 'needs', 'available', 'everyone', 'seeking', 'treatment', 'wether', 'drug', 'related', 'drug', 'drug', 'came', 'back', 'wasnt', 'take', 'participate', 'treatment', 'know', 'simply', 'wrong', 'type', 'conviction', 'short', 'needs', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'national', 'prison', 'reform', 'indeed', 'major', 'disrepair', 'voting', 'fix']"
"['see', 'corrupt']"
"['hold', 'office']"
"['become', 'conscious', 'important', 'voice', 'come', 'human', 'education']"
['person']
"['slightly', 'education']"
"['talking', 'getting', 'going']"
[]
"['think', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'politics', 'getting', 'better', 'understanding', 'justice', 'department']"
"['firm', 'democrat', 'recently', 'become', 'independent', 'speak', 'want', 'corruptness', 'fake', 'back', 'biting', 'go', 'away', 'sad', 'one', 'side', 'side', 'corruption', 'done', 'job', 'quit', 'pointing', 'someone', 'else', 'stop', 'worrying', 'counter', 'part', 'wrong', 'supposed', 'united', 'might', 'get', 'done', 'right', 'way', 'fashion']"
"['time', 'listen', 'see']"
"['always', 'thought', 'essential', 'society', 'believe', 'punishment', 'breaking', 'think', 'right', 'fair', 'disparity', 'continue', 'wrong', 'cause', 'everyone', 'one', 'concerned', 'prison', 'ran', 'taken', 'advantage', 'system', 'one', 'concerned', 'lack', 'release', 'need', 'date', 'willing', 'fix', 'system', 'ran', 'get', 'put']"
"['grew', 'hate', 'world', 'got', 'sick', 'way']"
"['become', 'aware', 'political']"
"['incarceration', 'liberal', 'conservative', 'left', 'swing', 'democratic', 'party', 'towards', 'socialism', 'also', 'impeachment']"
"['tend', 'pay', 'attention', 'dealing', 'justice', 'system']"
"['feel', 'informed', 'politics', 'since', 'prison']"
[]
"['lived', 'present', 'moment', 'self', 'awareness', 'clue', 'thought', 'felt', 'survive', 'moment', 'moment', 'realize', 'whole', 'reality', 'beyond', 'world', 'striving', 'survive', 'thrive', 'pass', 'experience', 'best', 'know', 'know', 'govern', 'legislation', 'set', 'tone', 'pace', 'create', 'bring', 'order', 'chaos', 'rule', 'law', 'law', 'king', 'law', 'enforce', 'law']"
"['news', 'media', 'spend', 'much', 'time', 'crime', 'negative', 'side', 'political', 'influence', 'looking', 'root', 'help', 'mean', 'real', 'help', 'kind', 'good', 'paper', 'prepared', 'go', 'back', 'day', 'walk', 'prison', 'locking', 'throwing', 'away', 'key', 'matter', 'done', 'answer', 'big', 'instead', 'become', 'less', 'human', 'money', 'foot', 'would', 'happy', 'talk', 'someone']"
"['yes', 'last', 'three', 'watched', 'news', 'really', 'crazy', 'many', 'hate']"
"['mostly', 'justice', 'department']"
"['right', 'vote']"
"['political', 'since', 'self', 'discovery', 'lead', 'prison', 'recovery', 'process', 'become', 'interested', 'country', 'faced', 'us', 'especially', 'involve', 'crime', 'punishment', 'many', 'resolved', 'anger', 'associated', 'traumatic', 'childhood', 'mant', 'times', 'sought', 'help', 'turned', 'blind', 'eye', 'psychological', 'emotional', 'lead', 'path', 'antisocial', 'behavioral', 'beaten', 'tormented', 'abusive', 'understand', 'hurting', 'hurtful', 'wanting', 'feel', 'rhe', 'pain', 'suffering', 'feel', 'inside', 'serious', 'problem', 'facing', 'country', 'innocent', 'social', 'economic', 'facing']"
"['interested', 'politics', 'affect', 'especially', 'older']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'politics', 'conflict', 'two', 'concern', 'personal', 'agenda']"
"['yes', 'say', 'pay', 'attention', 'past', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'politics', 'know', 'starting', 'go', 'better', 'direction', 'border', 'security', 'mainly', 'deport', 'gang', 'illegally', 'believe', 'whole', 'lot']"
"['longer', 'right', 'opinion']"
"['see', 'justice', 'system']"
"['really', 'havent', 'much']"
"['watched', 'news', 'since']"
[]
"['see', 'upper', 'class', 'getting', 'lower', 'without', 'money']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'middle', 'political', 'talk', 'dont', 'anything', 'truly', 'create', 'better', 'society']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'affect', 'incarceration']"
"['society', 'link', 'court', 'unfortunately', 'much', 'general', 'public', 'given', 'away', 'public', 'corruption', 'fester', 'grow', 'like', 'cancer', 'quite', 'frankly', 'truly', 'appreciate', 'public', 'truly', 'trying', 'progress', 'positive', 'path']"
"['time', 'become', 'informed', 'forced', 'opinion', 'defend', 'one', 'become', 'opinion', 'stand', 'point', 'also', 'impactual', 'stand', 'point', 'change', 'seen', 'sides', 'issue', 'well', 'become', 'informed', 'side']"
"['crowded', 'nonsense', 'dont', 'get', 'better', 'good', 'time']"
"['dont', 'listen', 'state', 'dont', 'care', 'long', 'get']"
"['yes', 'un', 'fair']"
"['yes', 'injustice', 'see', 'corrupt', 'system', 'like', 'manifest', 'injustice']"
['side']
"['need', 'let', 'go', 'work', 'together', 'fight', 'find', 'common', 'ground', 'make', 'us', 'respect']"
"['political', 'longer', 'selfish', 'needs', 'needs', 'meet']"
"['would', 'change', 'handled', 'society']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'right', 'vote']"
"['put', 'office', 'prison', 'reform', 'directly', 'subject']"
[]
"['see', 'want', 'help', 'change']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going']"
['way']
"['feel', 'like', 'want', 'rather', 'reb', 'seem', 'reaching', 'blindness', 'willingly', 'take', 'well', 'lack', 'truth', 'party', 'seem', 'infected', 'swinging', 'one', 'opinion', 'day', 'less']"
"['something', 'would', 'sad']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'understood', 'coming', 'prison']"
"['need', 'better', 'justice', 'system', 'care']"
"['becoming', 'aware', 'politics']"
['system']
"['wasnt', 'politics', 'didnt', 'much', 'affect', 'life']"
['comment']
"['see', 'country', 'needs', 'work', 'prison', 'reform', 'many', 'locked', 'simply', 'belong', 'certain', 'funds', 'prison', 'reform', 'help', 'prevent', 'coming', 'prison', 'place', 'keep', 'country', 'would', 'probably', 'save', 'millions']"
"['view', 'politics', 'strong', 'ago', 'got']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'made', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'justice', 'system', 'reform', 'education', 'minority', 'realize', 'voting', 'difference', 'need', 'political']"
"['see', 'way', 'small']"
"['see', 'positive', 'politics']"
"['learned', 'concerning', 'surrounding', 'reach', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['well', 'since', 'resun', 'say', 'lot', 'us', 'say', 'ever', 'dont']"
"['yeah', 'used', 'even', 'care', 'politics', 'really', 'going', 'country']"
['ye']
"['pay', 'attention', 'news']"
"['suck', 'dick']"
"['oh', 'ya', 'find']"
"['mean', 'way', 'around', 'much', 'better', 'man', 'thats', 'take', 'time', 'man']"
['affect']
"['think', 'politics', 'really', 'help', 'hurt', 'real', 'reform', 'help', 'back', 'society']"
"['yes', 'swept', 'rug', 'also', 'deal', 'unfair']"
"['leaving', 'country', 'like', 'sailor', 'leaves', 'sinking', 'ship']"
"['see', 'wrong', 'legal', 'system', 'politics', 'lot', 'government', 'make', 'behalf', 'across', 'country']"
"['system', 'system', 'two', 'faced', 'real', 'true', 'justice', 'state', 'world']"
"['since', 'justice', 'system', 'seen', 'like', 'like', 'trash', 'system', 'nit', 'seen', 'human']"
['become']
"['think', 'opinion']"
"['hate', 'country']"
"['way', 'concerned', 'justice', 'reform']"
['aware']
"['good', 'time', 'percentage', 'time', 'low', 'raised', 'good', 'rime', 'feel', 'wouldnt', 'many', 'violence', 'rate', 'right', 'mess', 'matter', 'dont', 'lose', 'much', 'time', 'opposed', 'would', 'percentage', 'ere', 'higher']"
"['watched', 'news', 'since', 'therefor', 'seen', 'trump', 'always', 'news', 'dumb', 'reason']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['always', 'republican', 'got', 'tiny', 'bit', 'also', 'got', 'month', 'sentence', 'misdemeanor', 'lewd', 'behavior', 'something', 'outside', 'high', 'time', 'ran', 'concurrent', 'got', 'probation', 'however', 'got', 'got', 'got', 'job', 'county', 'public', 'works', 'got', 'house', 'due', 'register', 'sex', 'offender', 'lost', 'job', 'due', 'public', 'opinion', 'face', 'book', 'found', 'lost', 'house', 'probation', 'officer', 'sent', 'prison', 'employment', 'cant', 'job', 'outside', 'work', 'crew', 'go', 'work', 'release', 'sex', 'offender', 'crime', 'extensive', 'criminal', 'history', 'around', 'substance', 'abuse', 'sex', 'offender', 'thing', 'unbelievable', 'ashamed', 'know', 'get', 'go', 'work', 'release', 'murder']"
"['dont', 'know', 'time']"
[]
"['become', 'interested']"
['yes']
"['apt', 'vote', 'republican', 'party', 'independent', 'party', 'two', 'apt', 'say', 'public']"
"['understand', 'important', 'vote', 'voice', 'taken', 'mistake', 'led', 'incarceration', 'lastly', 'become', 'understand', 'government', 'doesnt', 'want', 'vote', 'negate', 'feel', 'less', 'delinquent', 'still', 'arent', 'vigorous', 'wanting', 'pur', 'especially', 'corrupt', 'judicial', 'system']"
['yes']
"['every', 'body', 'frim', 'race', 'want', 'team', 'survive', 'need', 'kind', 'support', 'make', 'dont']"
"['well', 'aware', 'going']"
"['know', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['educated', 'mature', 'personal', 'research', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'politics', 'trump', 'president']"
"['never', 'thought', 'political']"
['nope']
"['state', 'much', 'per', 'prisoner', 'money']"
"['going', 'back', 'never', 'vote', 'one', 'general', 'election', 'one', 'occasion', 'criminal', 'history', 'hard', 'even', 'register', 'chance', 'going', 'back', 'question', 'one', 'system', 'every', 'little', 'thing', 'food', 'clothes', 'health', 'even', 'basic', 'entertainment', 'insight', 'outside', 'world']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'want', 'help', 'turn', 'country', 'around']"
"['really', 'trying']"
"['aware', 'politics']"
"['try', 'going', 'prison']"
['yes']
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'trump', 'got']"
"['learning', 'pay', 'attention', 'really', 'help', 'also', 'democrat', 'realize', 'want', 'help', 'poor', 'different', 'approach']"
"['one', 'sided', 'inexperienced']"
"['since', 'ever', 'since', 'show', 'interest', 'politics', 'ever', 'since', 'trump', 'office', 'impeachment', 'drastically']"
"['understand', 'thinking', 'animosity', 'whites', 'white', 'much', 'better', 'used', 'even', 'though', 'disagree']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'free', 'man', 'prison', 'world', 'world', 'really', 'care', 'put', 'prison', 'say', 'guilty', 'must', 'right', 'try', 'right', 'way', 'world', 'us', 'like', 'scum', 'earth', 'politics', 'another', 'word', 'greed', 'government', 'care', 'care', 'money', 'going', 'looking', 'like', 'world', 'talk', 'strong', 'country', 'yet', 'fake', 'waste', 'military', 'petty', 'nothing', 'us', 'still', 'would', 'fight', 'family', 'ever', 'given', 'chance', 'many', 'love', 'get', 'back', 'fighting', 'army', 'send', 'us', 'instead', 'like', 'us', 'like', 'give']"
[]
"['position', 'incarceration', 'able', 'view', 'world', 'objectively']"
"['use', 'lean', 'towards', 'democratic', 'party', 'liberal', 'lenient', 'crime']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['old', 'uneducated', 'street', 'didnt', 'even', 'political', 'came', 'prison', 'say', 'yes', 'actually', 'political', 'president', 'trump', 'racist', 'politician', 'yes', 'political', 'apart', 'political', 'party', 'working', 'republican', 'party', 'working', 'anything', 'anyone', 'agree', 'street', 'career', 'get', 'streets', 'help', 'us', 'prosper', 'college', 'become', 'social', 'worker', 'even', 'though', 'vote', 'matter', 'trump', 'president']"
"['able', 'study', 'political']"
"['gor', 'better', 'towards']"
"['see', 'older']"
"['time', 'stay', 'abreast', 'current', 'learn', 'understand', 'free', 'world', 'hence', 'based', 'upon', 'greater', 'understanding', 'really']"
[]
"['number', 'one']"
"['believe', 'us', 'stop', 'killing', 'unite', 'take', 'land', 'back', 'united', 'take', 'crooked', 'greedy', 'government', 'destroy', 'thats', 'dream', 'mine', 'though', 'never', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'need', 'office', 'make', 'system', 'help', 'us', 'keep', 'us']"
"['see', 'truth', 'grew', 'since', 'used', 'care', 'politic', 'never', 'knew', 'understood', 'meaning', 'know', 'many', 'one', 'system', 'young', 'know', 'cause', 'come', 'forgotten', 'come', 'point', 'time', 'see', 'care', 'want', 'help', 'matter', 'matter', 'society', 'elect', 'power', 'ever', 'make', 'want', 'fully', 'incarceration', 'vote', 'half', 'like', 'oh', 'let', 'nice', 'broke', 'law', 'truth', 'also', 'want', 'help', 'better', 'help', 'society', 'become', 'better']"
"['see', 'immediate', 'need', 'reform', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'entire']"
"['child', 'fan', 'came', 'prison', 'learned', 'damage', 'poor', 'ability', 'access', 'public', 'blinded', 'trial']"
"['yes', 'never', 'see', 'come', 'prison', 'need']"
"['came', 'prison', 'interest', 'anything', 'stupidity', 'lived', 'prison', 'see', 'public', 'really', 'aware', 'ignorance', 'case', 'prisoner', 'bliss']"
"['world', 'upper', 'class', 'talk', 'lower', 'poor', 'dont', 'happen', 'go', 'threw', 'hell', 'make', 'made', 'easier', 'upper', 'class', 'dont', 'live', 'work', 'urban']"
"['since', 'registered', 'vote', 'got', 'card', 'week', 'never', 'really', 'interested', 'politics', 'made', 'realize', 'government', 'decide', 'actually', 'effect', 'us', 'power', 'decide', 'goes', 'whether', 'state', 'federal', 'havent', 'really', 'chance', 'look', 'far', 'politics', 'limited', 'given', 'opportunity', 'would', 'involve']"
"['like', 'intensity', 'drug']"
"['since', 'locked', 'fear', 'lost', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['concerned', 'state', 'worried', 'matter', 'office', 'going', 'screw', 'us', 'level', 'achieve', 'agenda']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'whereas', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['thank', 'yes', 'political', 'ever', 'knowledge', 'wisdom', 'increase', 'wether', 'incarceration', 'made', 'feel', 'think', 'politically', 'active', 'voice', 'many', 'like', 'might', 'think', 'generation', 'really', 'ball', 'taking', 'part', 'government', 'made', 'skewed']"
"['yes', 'lot']"
"['interested', 'whats', 'happening', 'whats', 'going', 'happen', 'ever']"
"['didnt', 'faith', 'finally', 'trump', 'actually', 'standing', 'everything', 'said', 'would', 'like', 'un', 'afraid', 'speak', 'working', 'country', 'also', 'take', 'initiative', 'something']"
"['feel', 'like', 'arent', 'right', 'right', 'vote', 'maybe', 'could', 'help', 'change']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['hate', 'ever', 'comes']"
"['prison', 'shown', 'extreme', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'way', 'accomplish', 'change', 'informed']"
"['believe', 'actually', 'st', 'hand', 'penal', 'living', 'streets', 'actually', 'like', 'go']"
"['used', 'hate', 'politics', 'equally', 'flagrant', 'hypocrisy', 'come', 'hate', 'preach', 'tolerance', 'time', 'aggressively', 'attack', 'represent', 'contrary', 'also', 'sending', 'bad', 'mixed', 'telling', 'bullying', 'wrong', 'relentlessly', 'president', 'sometimes', 'family']"
"['seeing', 'always', 'cover', 'investigate', 'state', 'fired', 'heat', 'come', 'back', 'leave', 'even', 'come', 'back', 'make', 'time']"
['cause']
"['waisted', 'rehabilitation', 'time', 'much', 'else']"
"['real', 'dealt']"
"['end', 'world', 'still', 'want', 'vote']"
"['want', 'know', 'going', 'politically']"
"['become', 'conservative']"
"['politics', 'closely']"
"['made', 'aware', 'new', 'made', 'judicial', 'branch', 'also', 'take', 'good', 'look', 'important', 'citizen', 'whats', 'wrong', 'society', 'whole', 'also', 'need', 'make', 'change', 'change', 'environment', 'around']"
"['hard', 'question', 'would', 'say', 'yes', 'trump', 'done', 'past', 'couple', 'taught', 'us', 'like', 'unemployment', 'rate', 'take', 'international', 'effort', 'keep', 'improving', 'unemployment', 'rate']"
"['yes', 'see', 'injustice', 'go', 'threw', 'feel', 'one', 'nothing', 'thats', 'reason', 'big', 'follower', 'wright', 'team', 'prison', 'legal', 'news', 'newspaper', 'get']"
[]
"['well', 'everyone', 'mind', 'time', 'time']"
"['part', 'future', 'right', 'vote']"
[]
"['well', 'seen', 'bad', 'side', 'life', 'poverty', 'child', 'one', 'doesnt', 'really', 'help', 'much', 'trying', 'go', 'half', 'way', 'house', 'drug', 'free', 'home', 'cant', 'even', 'get', 'help']"
['interested']
['older']
"['trusting', 'thing', 'said']"
"['time', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'know', 'every', 'vote', 'difference']"
"['seen', 'prison', 'believe', 'needs', 'reform']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'interested', 'political', 'agenda', 'realize', 'politics', 'impact', 'life', 'better', 'worse']"
['money']
"['see', 'racial', 'get', 'lowly', 'race']"
[]
"['pay', 'work']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'came', 'prison']"
"['see', 'actually', 'thought']"
"['feel', 'like', 'prison', 'matter']"
"['system', 'business', 'private', 'interest', 'acknowledge', 'real', 'lie', 'surface', 'fail', 'actually', 'help', 'us', 'correctly', 'post', 'release', 'violation', 'th', 'amend', 'used', 'felon', 'never', 'chance', 'challenge', 'parole', 'contract']"
"['watch', 'whats', 'happening', 'world', 'since']"
"['want', 'know', 'going', 'politics']"
['fighting']
"['time', 'aegis', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'certain', 'often', 'political', 'since', 'old', 'enough', 'interested', 'politics', 'nothing', 'like', 'hand', 'experience', 'make', 'understand', 'certain', 'view', 'point', 'clarify', 'united', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'turmoil', 'many', 'harmless', 'drug', 'related', 'need', 'help', 'incarceration', 'jail', 'prison', 'time', 'stop', 'hardly', 'ever', 'deter', 'recurrent', 'drug', 'use', 'associated', 'prison', 'system', 'overflowing', 'drug', 'whose', 'time', 'prison', 'actually', 'make', 'worse', 'exposure', 'oft', 'times', 'world', 'likely', 'become', 'well', 'new', 'drug', 'use', 'related', 'brutal', 'cycle', 'horrible', 'tra']"
"['tend', 'see', 'whats', 'really', 'going', 'world', 'ever']"
['good']
"['lost', 'right', 'vote', 'mixed', 'right', 'back']"
"['politically', 'minded', 'life', 'going', 'waste', 'time', 'stress', 'energy']"
"['seen', 'unfair', 'crap', 'justice', 'system']"
"['say', 'dont', 'count', 'thats', 'way', 'side', 'prison', 'want', 'saying', 'anything', 'voting', 'anything', 'goes', 'outside', 'world']"
"['view', 'world', 'know', 'like', 'side']"
"['vote', 'pertain', 'right']"
['nope']
['value']
"['need', 'drug']"
"['state', 'allow', 'vote', 'probation', 'parole', 'post', 'release']"
"['grew', 'democrat', 'lean', 'toward', 'republican']"
"['see', 'life', 'whole', 'new', 'perspective']"
"['never', 'justice', 'system']"
"['feel', 'grid', 'chart', 'way', 'extensive', 'feel', 'punishment', 'case', 'case', 'bias', 'cut', 'population', 'trouble', 'simply', 'made', 'mistake']"
['comment']
"['yes', 'manny', 'child']"
"['make', 'realize']"
"['doesnt', 'matter']"
"['cant', 'time']"
"['charge', 'given']"
"['born', 'entire', 'life', 'view', 'consider', 'good', 'evil', 'entire', 'political', 'interest', 'half', 'nation', 'basically']"
['think']
"['view', 'wanting', 'someone', 'respect', 'common', 'rather', 'money', 'power', 'fear']"
"['petty', 'got', 'woman', 'prison', 'even', 'money', 'racket', 'political', 'sickening', 'wrong', 'state', 'used', 'claim', 'home', 'state', 'born', 'raised']"
"['understand', 'important', 'person']"
"['well', 'wasnt', 'politics', 'interested']"
['nothing']
['yes']
"['see', 'getting', 'less', 'less', 'time', 'drug', 'get', 'saying', 'one', 'crime', 'worse', 'another', 'maybe']"
"['sick', 'crying', 'trump']"
"['drug', 'reform']"
['change']
"['dont', 'care']"
"['life', 'corse', 'time', 'politics', 'suffering', 'went', 'one', 'els', 'profit', 'wile', 'time', 'facade', 'made', 'thirst', 'change', 'mother', 'prison', 'father', 'daughter', 'prison', 'system', 'whole', 'almost', 'positive']"
"['seventeen', 'came', 'prison', 'never', 'political', 'standing', 'coming', 'involved', 'politics', 'country', 'date', 'outside', 'world']"
"['need', 'help', 'felon']"
"['see', 'work']"
"['dont', 'believe', 'hope', 'government', 'revolution', 'answer']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['try', 'let', 'pave', 'road', 'try', 'remain', 'humble', 'true', 'treating', 'everyone']"
"['essay', 'made', 'realize', 'really', 'know', 'much', 'politics', 'want', 'really', 'start', 'looking', 'april']"
"['believe', 'need', 'something', 'done', 'get', 'time', 'get', 'murdering', 'someone']"
['um']
"['yes', 'state', 'lost', 'rehabilitation', 'side', 'become', 'warehouse', 'staff']"
"['since', 'learned', 'except', 'truth', 'truth', 'like', 'often', 'blame', 'government', 'political', 'constitution', 'forth', 'learn', 'ignorant', 'choice', 'force', 'wish', 'illuminate', 'warn', 'self', 'educate']"
"['open', 'minded', 'still', 'bit', 'although']"
"['took', 'nonchalant', 'stance', 'politics', 'reading', 'news', 'everyday', 'given', 'chance', 'look', 'country', 'headed', 'made', 'country']"
"['become', 'racist']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'detail', 'regarding', 'politics']"
"['used', 'politically', 'persuaded', 'interested', 'either', 'way', 'since', 'world', 'service', 'political']"
['always']
"['young', 'man', 'coming', 'system', 'concern', 'politics', 'life', 'since', 'coming', 'prison', 'taking', 'notice', 'economical', 'statistics', 'worldly', 'fellow']"
['need']
"['interested', 'person', 'incarceration']"
"['dont', 'look']"
"['incarceration', 'moral', 'compass', 'conscience', 'seared', 'conscience', 'morality']"
"['prison', 'verbally', 'abusive', 'nobody', 'prison']"
"['used', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'watching', 'learning', 'trump']"
"['see', 'view']"
"['incarceration', 'let', 'see', 'experience', 'level', 'money', 'going', 'oh', 'way', 'cannot', 'vote', 'presidency', 'felony', 'answer', 'question', 'prior', 'last', 'essay', 'question']"
"['believe', 'matter']"
['change']
[]
"['think', 'scum', 'earth']"
[]
"['use', 'think', 'matter', 'know', 'dont']"
"['difficult', 'explain']"
"['know', 'go', 'jump', 'lake', 'full']"
"['see', 'point', 'view', 'little', 'better']"
"['one', 'trying', 'help', 'us', 'go', 'school', 'college', 'want', 'make', 'money', 'want', 'set', 'get', 'thats', 'always', 'option', 'want', 'change', 'life', 'apart', 'make', 'almost', 'impossible', 'lost']"
['peace']
"['kind', 'hard', 'explain', 'decision', 'sure']"
"['see', 'bad', 'penal']"
"['become', 'aware', 'politics', 'since', 'becoming']"
['totally']
[]
"['every', 'one', 'able', 'vote', 'jail', 'prison']"
"['could', 'help']"
['trump']
[]
"['watching', 'trump', 'get']"
['voice']
"['scam', 'dont', 'matter', 'vote', 'trump', 'way', 'even', 'know', 'scam']"
"['society', 'could', 'afford', 'proper', 'representation']"
['need']
"['feel', 'need', 'take', 'better', 'grasp', 'hand', 'country', 'may', 'play', 'role', 'making', 'better']"
"['yes', 'course', 'slightly', 'highly', 'believe', 'even', 'whenever', 'something', 'comes', 'desk', 'concerning', 'quickly', 'handled', 'keep', 'us', 'long', 'possible', 'money', 'matter', 'look', 'take', 'example', 'biggest', 'problem', 'today', 'fact', 'one', 'attention', 'surrounding', 'case', 'minister', 'visiting', 'house', 'speak', 'given', 'working', 'house', 'well', 'door', 'got', 'house', 'property', 'rent', 'lease', 'agreement', 'residence', 'still', 'found', 'going', 'jail', 'sentence', 'think', 'felt', 'guy']"
"['yes', 'think', 'inmate', 'important']"
"['since', 'gotten', 'older', 'different']"
"['made', 'want', 'get', 'politics']"
"['motivation', 'even', 'participate', 'politics', 'try', 'listen', 'much', 'political', 'news', 'possible', 'change', 'department', 'better', 'met', 'past', 'lost', 'whole', 'prison', 'live', 'prison', 'ask', 'made', 'want', 'change', 'answer', 'simple', 'prison', 'system', 'didnt', 'streets', 'many', 'make', 'department', 'helping', 'change', 'better', 'job', 'classes', 'better', 'reward', 'system']"
"['see', 'live']"
"['pay', 'closer', 'attention', 'news']"
[]
[]
['understanding']
"['trying', 'change']"
"['need', 'fix']"
['need']
"['yes', 'see', 'trump', 'bad', 'man']"
"['see', 'world', 'different', 'place', 'tine', 'think']"
"['see', 'stuff', 'happen', 'within']"
['bother']
[]
"['since', 'whole', 'adult', 'life', 'petty', 'drug', 'offender', 'besides', 'made', 'bitter', 'towards', 'politics', 'general', 'led', 'little', 'faith', 'country', 'general']"
"['watching', 'trump']"
"['think', 'leniency', 'domestic', 'violence', 'situation', 'relationship', 'believing', 'abuser', 'instead', 'also', 'think', 'drug']"
"['dont', 'see', 'behind']"
"['want', 'involved', 'even', 'tho', 'cant', 'felon']"
"['often', 'done', 'survive', 'poverty', 'stricken', 'although', 'breaking', 'taught', 'school', 'along', 'history', 'math', 'science', 'maybe', 'would', 'know', 'better', 'break', 'law', 'would', 'known', 'life', 'would', 'hard', 'job', 'skill', 'level', 'would', 'poor', 'well', 'work', 'history', 'portfolio', 'would', 'never', 'gotten', 'trouble', 'criminal', 'history', 'difficult', 'take', 'seriously', 'many', 'mentally', 'emotionally', 'due', 'fact', 'felon', 'even', 'housing', 'feel', 'locking', 'always', 'answer', 'serving', 'debt', 'society', 'well', 'life', 'near', 'hard', 'social', 'status', 'fact', 'money', 'feel']"
"['year', 'army', 'veteran', 'legislation', 'pretty', 'strongly', 'see', 'severe', 'injustice', 'social', 'classes', 'werent', 'handed', 'write', 'legislation', 'handed', 'affecting', 'writing', 'passing', 'reality', 'could', 'never', 'understand', 'condemning', 'good', 'life', 'hell', 'never', 'understand', 'struggle', 'one', 'thing', 'fight', 'particular', 'job', 'social', 'status', 'another', 'thing', 'fight', 'food', 'shelter', 'sometimes', 'life', 'direct', 'commission', 'legislation', 'shouldnt', 'able', 'affect', 'know']"
"['think', 'right', 'vote', 'even', 'though', 'like', 'freedom', 'speech']"
['think']
"['different', 'think', 'look', 'everything', 'major', 'crime', 'severity', 'crime', 'past', 'along', 'present', 'one', 'treating', 'way', 'matter']"
"['would', 'give', 'perceptive']"
"['vote', 'get']"
"['cant', 'explain']"
['government']
[]
['nasty']
"['cause', 'dont', 'one', 'locked', 'could', 'done', 'long', 'time', 'ago']"
"['become', 'ever', 'get', 'want', 'good', 'like', 'time', 'time', 'vote', 'save', 'spotted', 'owl', 'save', 'didnt', 'read', 'fine', 'print', 'voting', 'save', 'animal', 'also', 'good', 'like', 'going', 'want', 'anyway', 'vote', 'need', 'slate', 'back', 'start', 'ask']"
[]
"['upset', 'able', 'get', 'help', 'really', 'need', 'want']"
"['law', 'enforcement', 'spend', 'sanction', 'jail', 'aloud', 'decide', 'enforce', 'law']"
"['end', 'needs', 'come', 'corruption', 'system']"
"['gotten', 'older', 'follow', 'little', 'younger', 'much']"
"['want', 'country', 'get', 'right', 'president']"
"['learned', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'less', 'interested', 'politics', 'little', 'attention', 'since', 'watch', 'read', 'news', 'often', 'know', 'politics']"
"['time', 'study', 'political', 'office']"
"['dont', 'get', 'right', 'study']"
"['feel', 'could', 'vote', 'would', 'impact', 'way', 'certain', 'government', 'would']"
['know']
"['see', 'housing', 'effects']"
"['become', 'interested', 'political', 'world']"
"['effect', 'community']"
"['realize', 'nothing', 'money', 'stuff']"
"['aware', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'doesnt', 'help', 'profit', 'plus', 'example', 'even', 'republican', 'wrong', 'cause', 'republican', 'dont', 'vote', 'democrat', 'happen', 'wrong', 'wrong', 'dont', 'care', 'side', 'load', 'crap']"
['see']
"['want', 'fight', 'justice', 'reform']"
['joke']
[]
"['picked', 'answer']"
['profit']
[]
"['yes', 'vote', 'arrest', 'incarceration', 'ago', 'education', 'shape', 'political']"
"['yes', 'definitely', 'become', 'versed', 'politics', 'constitutional', 'criminal', 'civil', 'law', 'social', 'consciousness', 'attentive', 'government', 'public']"
['times']
"['outlook', 'like', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'marijuana', 'minimum', 'wage', 'seen', 'better', 'understanding', 'affect', 'lower', 'income']"
"['see', 'differently', 'ho']"
"['since', 'age', 'political', 'view', 'point']"
"['able', 'vote', 'felon']"
"['learned', 'hate', 'equally']"
"['time', 'watch', 'learn', 'new', 'ways', 'country', 'sober']"
"['strongly', 'support', 'republican', 'party']"
['true']
"['yes', 'time', 'head', 'head', 'clean', 'time', 'follow']"
"['never', 'really', 'political', 'view', 'till', 'came', 'prison', 'pay']"
"['even', 'though', 'serving', 'sentence', 'crime', 'still', 'considered', 'felon', 'get', 'prison', 'pariah', 'public', 'stripped', 'away', 'even', 'though']"
"['belive', 'judicial', 'system', 'needs', 'seriously']"
[]
"['good', 'going', 'away', 'long', 'time', 'able', 'earn', 'way', 'home']"
"['money', 'used', 'fund', 'prison']"
"['last', 'incarceration', 'monastic', 'experience', 'come', 'see', 'turned', 'capitalism', 'also', 'come', 'see', 'individualistic', 'culture', 'like', 'justify', 'suffering', 'blaming', 'hunger', 'poverty', 'character', 'flaw', 'biological', 'instead', 'social', 'political', 'economic', 'trap', 'poverty', 'become', 'politically', 'engaged', 'view', 'politics', 'taken', 'radical', 'revolutionary', 'form']"
"['sex', 'offender', 'need']"
"['sex', 'fit']"
"['want', 'elect', 'understand', 'want', 'job', 'criteria', 'disabled', 'still', 'productive', 'member', 'society', 'make', 'positive', 'community']"
"['yes', 'making', 'time', 'harder']"
"['deal', 'prison', 'politics', 'day', 'long', 'go', 'belive', 'put', 'trump', 'office', 'id', 'heart', 'beat', 'need', 'leave', 'man', 'job', 'stop', 'trying', 'bring', 'fictional']"
"['since', 'education', 'found', 'intereat', 'humanity', 'feel', 'progressive', 'human']"
"['news', 'show', 'care', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['prisoner', 'see', 'change', 'time', 'said', 'important', 'see', 'person', 'worth', 'done', 'done', 'since', 'beginning', 'man', 'always', 'make', 'whole', 'must', 'come', 'together', 'help', 'one', 'another', 'instead', 'hate', 'extensive', 'must', 'support', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['involved', 'process', 'say', 'right', 'thing', 'right']"
"['used', 'independent', 'even', 'though', 'less', 'towards', 'prison', 'reform', 'feel', 'align', 'republican', 'party']"
"['un', 'la', 'para', 'la', 'solo', 'si', 'el', 'para', 'el', 'pueblo', 'naciì_n']"
"['never', 'recognize', 'importance']"
"['seen', 'side', 'reality', 'system', 'ineffective', 'narrow', 'focus', 'detrimental', 'safety', 'society']"
"['got', 'lockup', 'incident', 'could', 'gone', 'way', 'low', 'level', 'street', 'dealer', 'absolutely', 'education', 'read', 'write', 'politics', 'far', 'mind', 'time', 'thinking', 'feeding', 'family', 'friend', 'told', 'put', 'pride', 'ego', 'learn', 'read', 'write', 'point', 'set', 'back', 'look', 'life', 'life', 'took', 'turn', 'best', 'realize', 'everything', 'one', 'effects', 'around', 'got', 'law', 'realize', 'one', 'citizen', 'one', 'know', 'law', 'know', 'know', 'law', 'believe', 'would', 'situation', 'one', 'right', 'bear', 'also', 'duty', 'retreat', 'many', 'know', 'obligation', 'society', 'duty', 'study', 'law', 'lead', 'politics', 'study', 'politics', 'grown', 'political', 'view']"
"['prior', 'really', 'political', 'born', 'generation', 'grew', 'nuclear', 'bomb', 'russia', 'nam', 'even', 'though', 'away', 'draft', 'go', 'somewhere', 'fight', 'country', 'father', 'marine', 'fought', 'grand', 'father', 'side', 'poncho', 'villa', 'around', 'border', 'grand', 'father', 'side', 'sons', 'fought', 'maybe', 'remember', 'told', 'mustard', 'gas', 'nasty', 'stuff']"
"['talk', 'much']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'crime', 'got', 'instead', 'getting', 'help', 'mental', 'health', 'prison', 'place', 'need', 'give', 'help', 'drug', 'sober', 'almost', 'happy']"
"['sex', 'offender', 'public', 'forget', 'human', 'making', 'impossible', 'back', 'society']"
"['well', 'plenty', 'time', 'stay', 'tuned', 'goes', 'country', 'watching', 'world', 'news', 'fox', 'news', 'discovered', 'crazy', 'politics', 'really', 'seem', 'thing', 'need', 'desire', 'real', 'eye', 'opener', 'one', 'way', 'think', 'everyone', 'embrace', 'vacation', 'world', 'stress', 'society', 'general']"
[]
['care']
"['think', 'made', 'trump', 'president', 'united']"
"['articulable', 'politic']"
"['would', 'much', 'result', 'incarceration', 'personal', 'transformation', 'place', 'therein', 'discovered', 'identity', 'begun', 'view', 'world', 'perspective', 'able', 'better', 'serve', 'capacity', 'greater']"
"['open', 'minded']"
"['yes', 'see', 'color', 'get', 'compare', 'white', 'prison', 'outside', 'well']"
"['certain', 'refuse', 'look', 'real', 'hand', 'allow', 'reformed']"
"['incarceration', 'politics', 'care', 'direction', 'country', 'moving', 'facing', 'college', 'education', 'enlightened', 'facing', 'country', 'impact']"
"['fact', 'met', 'really', 'good', 'made', 'life', 'believe', 'second', 'chance', 'life', 'political', 'need', 'spoken']"
"['involved', 'politics', 'ever', 'see', 'turmoil', 'country', 'want', 'keep', 'times', 'order', 'trying', 'incorporate', 'politically', 'driven']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'little', 'bit', 'didnt']"
['none']
"['twenty', 'ago', 'felt', 'opinion', 'matter', 'party', 'didnt', 'understand', 'amongst', 'since', 'learned', 'share', 'republican', 'party', 'look', 'legislative', 'congresswoman', 'men', 'worked', 'retirement', 'need', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'since', 'locked', 'everything', 'change']"
"['view', 'profit', 'government', 'dramatically', 'particularly', 'respect', 'prison', 'health', 'care', 'food', 'service']"
"['social', 'justice', 'social', 'change']"
"['become', 'conscious', 'dynamics', 'politics']"
['good']
"['watch', 'news']"
['impact']
"['way', 'country', 'run']"
"['great', 'deal', 'taken', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'fear', 'upon', 'last', 'fifty', 'due', 'addiction', 'rate', 'society', 'taken', 'control', 'social', 'structure']"
['aware']
"['honestly', 'right', 'high', 'school', 'didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'starting', 'see', 'system']"
"['made', 'realize', 'corrupt', 'system']"
"['consideration', 'towards', 'prison', 'human']"
"['negative', 'bias', 'constant', 'reaction', 'really', 'sad', 'fear', 'causing', 'anti', 'patriotism', 'country', 'really', 'due', 'incarceration']"
[]
[]
[]
"['see', 'aware', 'whats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'know', 'trying', 'change', 'prison', 'system']"
['rime']
"['hard', 'time', 'understanding', 'prison', 'less', 'citizen', 'unable', 'vote', 'like', 'citizen', 'prison', 'less', 'person', 'made']"
"['looking', 'one', 'care']"
"['seeing', 'hearing', 'want', 'vote', 'try', 'get', 'better', 'stop', 'corruption', 'fair', 'honest', 'legal', 'system']"
"['political', 'since', 'experience', 'justice', 'system', 'open', 'deeply', 'set', 'corruption', 'embezzlement', 'lack', 'government']"
"['less', 'traditionalist', 'versed', 'civil', 'criminal', 'constitutional', 'law', 'reading', 'thus', 'grown', 'informed']"
"['harder', 'view', 'election', 'incarceration']"
"['gave', 'light', 'understanding', 'politics']"
"['watch', 'unfold', 'clearly', 'prison', 'busy', 'working', 'streets']"
"['sometimes', 'dont', 'understand', 'run', 'way']"
['care']
[]
[]
['racial']
"['ware', 'house', 'told', 'self', 'lied', 'lost', 'hope', 'system', 'want', 'chance', 'life', 'learned', 'great', 'deal', 'sorry', 'one', 'chance']"
"['thought', 'drop', 'ball', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['never', 'used', 'care', 'much', 'git', 'directly', 'racism', 'system']"
"['stringent', 'less', 'variable']"
"['president', 'impeachment', 'president', 'bush', 'compassionate', 'conservatism', 'support', 'present', 'bush', 'took', 'war', 'false', 'president', 'however', 'policy', 'support', 'president', 'trump']"
['prison']
[]
"['never', 'help', 'see', 'system']"
"['need', 'working', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'think', 'party', 'use', 'support', 'democratic', 'party', 'incarceration']"
"['came', 'prison', 'follow', 'care', 'politics', 'part', 'life', 'care', 'politician', 'say', 'affect', 'nation']"
[]
"['gave', 'time', 'stop', 'see', 'going', 'world']"
"['try', 'get', 'involved', 'politics', 'religion', 'prison']"
['comment']
"['well', 'give', 'time', 'see', 'news', 'see', 'better', 'talking']"
['none']
"['dont', 'agree']"
"['yes', 'wrong', 'way']"
"['yes', 'see', 'sides', 'nation']"
[]
"['family', 'republican', 'coming', 'prison', 'republican', 'coming', 'prison', 'taking', 'college', 'seeing', 'world', 'differently', 'combined', 'experience', 'voting', 'democrat', 'even', 'though', 'democrat', 'responsible', 'crime', 'ended', 'federal', 'pell', 'grant', 'program', 'guess', 'would', 'come', 'around', 'see', 'folly', 'war', 'tough', 'crime']"
"['hate', 'politics']"
"['time', 'look']"
"['idea', 'importance', 'politics', 'sence', 'justice', 'wrong', 'true', 'true', 'political', 'position', 'needs', 'look', 'rate', 'incarceration', 'rate', 'crime', 'order']"
"['treat', 'sex', 'like', 'least', 'likely', 'reoffend', 'crime']"
"['need', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['would', 'vote', 'would', 'especially', 'concerning', 'prison', 'reform', 'inmate', 'entry', 'parole', 'release']"
[]
"['informed', 'ever']"
[]
"['used', 'capital', 'punishment', 'came', 'prison', 'truly', 'innocent']"
[]
"['interest', 'whatsoever', 'politics', 'month', 'subsequently', 'prison', 'foster', 'child', 'merely', 'suppress', 'getting', 'point', 'life', 'make', 'significant', 'life', 'personnel']"
"['conservative', 'take', 'account', 'social', 'justice', 'prison', 'reform', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'oblivious', 'justice', 'today']"
"['understand', 'today', 'dont', 'pay', 'streets']"
"['dont', 'anything', 'without', 'money', 'help', 'rehabilitate', 'would', 'care', 'president']"
[]
"['focus', 'someone', 'trying', 'get']"
"['like', 'money', 'sign']"
"['never', 'really', 'since', 'never', 'watch', 'happening', 'country', 'corrupt', 'lying', 'breaking', 'stealing', 'money', 'wasting', 'bogus', 'impeachment', 'longer', 'stand', 'stop', 'deserve', 'better', 'better']"
"['used', 'believe', 'country', 'stood', 'however', 'since', 'becoming', 'involved', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'seeing', 'crooked', 'corrupt', 'starting', 'change', 'dramatically', 'change', 'needs', 'come']"
"['grown', 'whole', 'life', 'democrat', 'taught', 'work', 'since', 'turned', 'hearing', 'stopped', 'listening', 'agenda', 'tearing', 'country', 'apart', 'sure', 'see', 'know', 'right', 'thing', 'much', 'hate', 'distain', 'current', 'president', 'trump', 'gone', 'deep', 'end', 'could', 'realize', 'see', 'worked', 'country', 'world', 'would', 'better']"
"['made', 'open', 'around', 'corruption', 'political', 'system']"
"['republican', 'party', 'government', 'country', 'whole', 'younger', 'raise', 'hell', 'get', 'high', 'leniency', 'along', 'democrat', 'party', 'learned', 'country', 'run', 'smoothly', 'everyone', 'need', 'enforced', 'need', 'get', 'educated', 'work', 'need', 'manage', 'spending', 'better', 'need', 'small', 'low', 'strong', 'military', 'republican', 'agree', 'really', 'government', 'civil', 'dont', 'really', 'stand', 'anything']"
"['shown', 'extreme', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['think', 'much', 'high', 'prison', 'rate', 'talk', 'reform', 'till', 'state', 'given', 'life', 'sentence', 'time', 'offender', 'system', 'seeing', 'given', 'second', 'chance', 'state', 'strongly', 'believe', 'change', 'given', 'chance', 'say', 'parole', 'prison', 'system', 'never', 'thought', 'thought', 'would', 'never', 'inmate']"
"['conservative', 'someone', 'never', 'wrong', 'side', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'quote', 'well', 'recall', 'know', 'said']"
"['know', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex']"
['yes']
['news']
['none']
"['went', 'republican', 'independent']"
"['didnt', 'even', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'talking', 'watching', 'news', 'peaked', 'interest']"
"['yes', 'use', 'democrat', 'however', 'prison', 'time', 'study', 'zero', 'talk', 'good', 'game', 'make', 'huge', 'never', 'meet', 'opinion', 'get', 'dirty', 'get', 'accomplished', 'said', 'would', 'justice', 'reform', 'even', 'said', 'priority', 'never', 'everything', 'said', 'would', 'past', 'still', 'manage', 'work', 'ongoing', 'distraction', 'going', 'investigation', 'every', 'day', 'speak', 'think', 'republican', 'party', 'think', 'action', 'think', 'think', 'nothing']"
"['dont', 'care']"
"['since', 'paying', 'attention', 'news', 'since', 'cant', 'vote', 'voice', 'opinion', 'public']"
"['dont', 'give']"
"['feel', 'like', 'trump', 'racist']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['got', 'actually', 'time', 'learn', 'political']"
[]
"['hate', 'law']"
"['see', 'would', 'like', 'whoever', 'president', 'really', 'understand', 'realize', 'never', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'beforehand', 'political']"
"['criminal', 'chasing', 'money', 'hedonistic', 'self', 'serving', 'master', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'outside', 'sphere', 'payong', 'attention', 'world', 'around', 'ago']"
"['arrest', 'rarely', 'ever', 'thought', 'formerly', 'especially', 'sex', 'important', 'part', 'political', 'given', 'opportunity', 'move', 'beyond', 'past', 'rest']"
"['aware', 'system', 'works', 'truly', 'grasp', 'situation', 'hand']"
"['since', 'becoming', 'made', 'decision', 'become', 'stay', 'law', 'citizen', 'relationship', 'take', 'godly', 'stand']"
[]
"['let', 'honest', 'majority', 'even', 'education', 'one', 'us', 'care', 'understand', 'process', 'call', 'stuck', 'stupid', 'lack', 'education', 'see', 'life', 'different', 'proper', 'way', 'fight', 'back', 'ballot', 'box', 'one', 'simple', 'vote', 'right', 'direction', 'see', 'go']"
"['informed', 'since', 'become', 'aware', 'attentive']"
"['see', 'harshly']"
['yes']
"['always', 'pro', 'democrat', 'even', 'though', 'democrat', 'used', 'like', 'lie', 'right', 'looking', 'us', 'like', 'care', 'power', 'need', 'stand', 'together', 'like', 'trump', 'seem', 'like', 'know', 'next']"
"['time', 'prison', 'reflect', 'reach', 'actual', 'fact', 'little', 'formation', 'never', 'political', 'little', 'impact', 'time', 'interest', 'mostly', 'social', 'nature', 'politics', 'drive', 'popular', 'opinion', 'politics', 'shape', 'music', 'culture', 'interact', 'various', 'multiple', 'like', 'keep', 'finger', 'pulse', 'shifting', 'politics', 'today', 'seem', 'drive', 'social', 'change', 'past', 'believe', 'believe', 'never', 'gave', 'much', 'thought', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'may', 'still', 'core', 'tact', 'change', 'correct', 'word', 'answer', 'expanded', 'widespread', 'time', 'focus']"
"['seen', 'number', 'incarceration', 'political', 'system', 'prison', 'system', 'pawn', 'platform', 'time', 'however', 'put', 'office', 'forget', 'original', 'platform']"
"['grow', 'change', 'time']"
"['young', 'got', 'locked', 'didnt', 'really', 'understand', 'importance', 'voting', 'interested', 'voting']"
"['guess', 'call', 'liberal', 'coming', 'prison', 'older', 'mature', 'become', 'come', 'leftist', 'liberal', 'nurture', 'negative', 'personally', 'led', 'life', 'crime', 'whereas', 'right', 'wing', 'conservative', 'uphold', 'innocent', 'wholesome', 'taught', 'growing', 'probably', 'survey', 'right']"
"['would', 'like', 'address', 'previous', 'question', 'made', 'less', 'likely', 'vote', 'less', 'likely', 'feel', 'voter', 'nothing', 'help', 'voice', 'truly', 'far', 'political', 'since', 'incarceration', 'use', 'go', 'family', 'thought', 'told', 'whereas', 'due', 'find', 'need', 'know', 'make', 'best', 'decision', 'needs', 'citizen']"
"['came', 'yo', 'prison', 'never', 'know', 'anything', 'political', 'care', 'time', 'learn', 'different', 'party', 'understand', 'trying', 'help']"
"['didnt', 'use', 'care', 'really', 'didnt', 'understand', 'anything', 'politics', 'seeing', 'seen', 'since', 'really', 'made', 'want', 'active', 'voting', 'making', 'voice']"
"['care', 'streets', 'understand', 'lost', 'streets', 'want', 'better', 'streets', 'want', 'help', 'hope', 'get', 'lost']"
"['use', 'think', 'party', 'black', 'party', 'responsible', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['political', 'since', 'since', 'learned', 'think', 'critically', 'look', 'situation', 'objectively', 'weigh', 'instead', 'close', 'minded', 'issue', 'concerning', 'one', 'political', 'another']"
"['think', 'rather', 'believe', 'helping', 'help', 'everyone']"
"['seen', 'much', 'corruption', 'comes', 'us', 'want', 'accept', 'fact', 'want', 'represent', 'country', 'help', 'us', 'get', 'hope', 'lying']"
"['understand', 'need', 'help', 'able', 'fit', 'back', 'need', 'like', 'minded', 'power', 'aid']"
"['use', 'anything', 'right', 'bear', 'arms', 'came', 'young', 'teach', 'better', 'gift', 'right', 'responsibility', 'goes', 'shooting', 'agree', 'done', 'issue']"
"['political', 'view', 'point', 'believe', 'everyone', 'able', 'vote']"
"['actually', 'watch', 'news', 'didnt', 'know', 'understand', 'going']"
"['certain', 'face', 'today', 'society', 'president']"
"['thinking', 'time', 'dont', 'make', 'sense']"
"['world', 'works']"
"['really', 'self', 'see', 'see', 'turn', 'around', 'one', 'small', 'thing', 'wealthy', 'say', 'well']"
"['democratic', 'side', 'republican']"
"['look', 'differently']"
"['much', 'realize', 'government', 'impact', 'daily', 'life', 'prisoner', 'involved', 'standing', 'voice']"
"['yes', 'concerning', 'notice', 'dont', 'care', 'right', 'wrong', 'actually', 'lie', 'political', 'sacrifice', 'moral', 'character', 'extremely', 'bad', 'view']"
"['watching', 'news', 'whats', 'going', 'country']"
"['try', 'look', 'sides']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'news', 'understand', 'happening']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'use', 'want', 'vote', 'make', 'difference', 'country', 'thought', 'coming', 'prison', 'seeing', 'treatment', 'made', 'realize', 'corrupted', 'system', 'around', 'forever', 'apart', 'gang', 'justice', 'freedom']"
"['said', 'last', 'question', 'still', 'dont', 'trust', 'politics']"
"['would', 'like', 'say', 'even', 'member', 'community', 'far', 'socially', 'financially', 'conservative', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'support', 'number', 'societal', 'especially', 'education', 'justice', 'reform', 'support', 'still', 'consider', 'republican', 'though', 'one', 'might', 'call', 'purple', 'elephant', 'centrist', 'leaning', 'conservative', 'willing', 'make', 'compromise', 'wherein', 'public', 'good', 'best', 'slightly', 'less', 'conservative', 'approach']"
"['political', 'world', 'meant', 'nothing', 'felt', 'effect', 'life', 'read', 'learned', 'time', 'shown', 'wrong']"
"['tune', 'outside', 'world', 'ever', 'cause', 'know', 'ill', 'affected', 'point', 'life', 'incarceration']"
"['time', 'due', 'change', 'really', 'politics', 'like', 'government', 'say', 'anything', 'know', 'stop']"
"['well', 'sent', 'prison', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'political', 'stuff', 'study', 'half']"
['know']
"['use', 'think', 'democratic', 'party', 'community', 'best', 'interest', 'hand', 'since', 'like', 'many', 'seen', 'truth', 'democratic', 'party', 'ensure', 'made', 'collect', 'history', 'certain', 'make', 'health', 'care', 'vote', 'opposite', 'party', 'vote', 'instead', 'needs', 'needs']"
"['locked', 'made', 'look', 'life', 'prison', 'different', 'see', 'crime', 'right', 'need', 'change']"
"['well', 'coming', 'prison', 'law', 'enforcement', 'grown', 'come', 'look', 'thing', 'lot', 'differently', 'choose', 'view', 'understand', 'coming']"
"['want', 'put', 'right', 'office', 'seem', 'always', 'money', 'war', 'sending', 'back']"
"['grew', 'told', 'history', 'class', 'school', 'could', 'best', 'working', 'class', 'poor', 'overall', 'country', 'get', 'older', 'realize', 'corruption', 'major', 'political']"
"['incarceration', 'really', 'care', 'politics', 'except', 'voting', 'bigger', 'view', 'political', 'world', 'due', 'access', 'constant', 'watching', 'news']"
"['look', 'every', 'voice', 'count', 'every', 'vote', 'count']"
[]
"['difficult', 'say']"
"['usually', 'could', 'careless', 'since', 'politics', 'new', 'affect', 'sex', 'hearing']"
"['prison', 'realize', 'community', 'also', 'society', 'also', 'also', 'want', 'help', 'improve', 'prison', 'around', 'thats', 'would', 'like', 'run', 'state']"
"['havent', 'radically', 'consider']"
"['feel', 'like', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'needs', 'stop', 'need', 'form', 'good', 'time']"
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['made', 'open']"
"['didnt', 'knowledge', 'locked', 'since']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'open']"
"['locked', 'pay', 'attention', 'world']"
"['got', 'reason', 'think', 'saw', 'news', 'politics', 'anything', 'got', 'older', 'learning', 'politics', 'saw', 'whatever', 'going', 'capital', 'hill', 'white', 'house', 'something']"
"['yes', 'perhaps', 'corruption', 'inside', 'system', 'awful', 'killing', 'control', 'good', 'time', 'system', 'overcrowded', 'funds', 'going', 'need', 'made', 'actual', 'public', 'knowledge', 'like', 'public', 'understand', 'believe', 'punishment', 'reach', 'parole', 'done', 'time', 'positively', 'conduct', 'free', 'yet', 'due', 'wait', 'classes', 'parole', 'cannot', 'get', 'fault', 'wait', 'mail', 'list', 'long', 'close']"
['know']
"['getting', 'worser', 'person', 'locked', 'getting', 'help', 'make', 'better', 'plus', 'staff', 'white', 'white', 'constantly', 'setting', 'either', 'hole', 'worst', 'new', 'case']"
"['border', 'control', 'deportation', 'illegal']"
"['state', 'michigan', 'law', 'truth', 'person', 'minimum', 'law', 'go', 'home', 'michigan', 'make', 'minimum', 'see', 'parole', 'board', 'right', 'way', 'law', 'parole', 'board']"
"['incarceration', 'closed', 'minded', 'mind', 'set', 'political', 'concerned', 'going', 'community', 'world', 'much', 'bigger', 'opinion', 'directly', 'affect', 'care']"
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'said', 'background', 'information']"
"['really', 'becoming', 'aware', 'whats', 'going', 'around', 'son', 'think', 'smart', 'become', 'somewhat', 'educated', 'aware']"
"['sensitive', 'going', 'politically']"
"['never', 'really', 'prison', 'life', 'living', 'horrible', 'nasty', 'crime', 'send', 'everyone', 'prison', 'court', 'gun', 'residue', 'self', 'defense', 'better', 'plea', 'clean', 'need', 'come', 'back', 'vote', 'change', 'low', 'work', 'decision', 'need', 'change']"
"['never', 'really', 'understood', 'political', 'world', 'like', 'untill', 'came', 'prison', 'reading', 'watching', 'news', 'pay', 'close', 'attention']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'political', 'view', 'voting', 'didnt', 'care', 'one', 'way', 'coming', 'prison', 'guess', 'whole', 'thing', 'shoe', 'foot', 'whatnot']"
"['think', 'michigan', 'needs', 'reform', 'treatment']"
"['thing', 'never', 'thought', 'like', 'reform']"
['yes']
"['trump', 'need', 'good', 'time', 'like', 'dont', 'matter', 'every', 'one']"
"['though', 'ever', 'favor', 'yeah', 'political', 'view', 'since']"
"['use', 'think', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'learned', 'political', 'part']"
"['yes', 'look']"
"['got', 'locked', 'ago', 'grown']"
"['yes', 'never', 'thought', 'sex', 'offender', 'one', 'understand', 'sex', 'offender', 'still', 'need', 'help']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'previously', 'simply', 'understand', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'young', 'public', 'safety', 'officer', 'used', 'buy', 'tough', 'crime', 'politics']"
"['care', 'politics', 'care', 'especially', 'comes', 'way', 'president', 'answer', 'behalf']"
"['realize', 'corrupt', 'politics', 'legal', 'system', 'prior']"
[]
"['anyone', 'tried', 'help', 'believe', 'help', 'root', 'commit']"
"['support', 'want', 'change', 'want', 'keep', 'system']"
"['watch', 'news', 'really', 'feel', 'vote', 'stand']"
"['age', 'view', 'better', 'informed']"
['trump']
"['seeing', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['think', 'sides']"
['never']
"['open', 'recognize', 'media', 'bias', 'learned', 'form', 'political', 'bias']"
"['lote', 'get', 'wrong', 'even', 'frist', 'crime']"
"['concerned', 'country', 'president']"
"['made', 'want', 'take', 'control']"
"['time', 'watch', 'see', 'politics']"
"['never', 'much', 'attention', 'matter', 'like', 'everyone']"
"['seeing', 'current', 'president', 'trump', 'able', 'lie', 'blatantly', 'justify', 'behavior', 'excuse', 'abuse', 'office', 'president', 'oath', 'swore', 'god', 'man', 'uphold']"
"['inhumane', 'treatment', 'montana', 'department', 'towards', 'inmate']"
"['political', 'prison', 'didnt', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['learned', 'corrupt', 'judicial', 'system', 'overwhelming', 'need', 'judicial', 'reform', 'constitution', 'constitutional', 'need', 'find', 'put', 'office', 'best', 'instead', 'wealthy']"
"['know', 'hate', 'politics']"
"['din', 'know', 'corruption', 'government']"
"['since', 'locked']"
"['came', 'really']"
[]
"['dont', 'know', 'write']"
"['strong', 'conservative', 'religious', 'many', 'classes']"
"['see', 'poor']"
"['think', 'politics', 'prey', 'poor', 'rich', 'get', 'away', 'minimal', 'punishment']"
['yes']
"['hand', 'witness', 'pure', 'absolute', 'corruption', 'justice', 'system', 'country', 'become', 'police', 'power', 'corruption', 'justice', 'system', 'greed', 'power', 'religious', 'zealousy', 'antiquated', 'keep', 'system', 'corrupt', 'path', 'consequentially', 'leading', 'country', 'inevitable', 'ruin', 'make', 'immediate', 'need', 'lose', 'greed', 'profiteering']"
"['think', 'like', 'republican', 'middle', 'leaning', 'left']"
"['want', 'get', 'see', 'sides', 'everything']"
"['time', 'research', 'interpretation', 'constitution', 'also', 'driven', 'left', 'strict', 'construction', 'text', 'line', 'nobody', 'freewheeler']"
"['felt', 'got', 'locked', 'interested', 'getting', 'rid', 'trump']"
"['fed', 'crooked', 'system', 'get', 'wrong', 'guilty', 'however', 'system', 'work', 'make', 'us', 'better', 'would', 'steal', 'prison', 'system', 'manifestation', 'societal', 'injustice', 'prison', 'system', 'society', 'less', 'safe']"
"['become', 'conservative', 'believe', 'also', 'learned', 'transparency', 'necessary']"
"['aware', 'profit', 'get', 'tough', 'crime', 'came', 'sides', 'far', 'political']"
"['likely', 'want', 'vote']"
"['payed', 'attention']"
"['open', 'corruption']"
"['support', 'truly', 'want', 'help']"
"['yes', 'would', 'like', 'opinion', 'count', 'toward', 'something']"
['empathy']
"['come', 'see', 'bad', 'already']"
"['look', 'candidate', 'differently', 'listen', 'progressive']"
"['treat', 'discharge', 'crime', 'get', 'parole']"
"['law', 'mist', 'life', 'dont', 'give', 'person', 'get', 'way', 'stop']"
"['whole', 'system', 'us', 'police', 'media', 'public', 'prison', 'parole', 'board', 'work', 'hard', 'keep', 'prison', 'help', 'ensure', 'many', 'come', 'back']"
"['liberal', 'view']"
"['still', 'believe', 'country', 'best', 'nation', 'world']"
"['justice', 'system', 'needs', 'across', 'board', 'every', 'state', 'montana', 'far', 'behind', 'considering', 'parole', 'something', 'federal', 'illegal', 'condition', 'give', 'anyone', 'state']"
"['see', 'different', 'side']"
"['used', 'faith', 'government', 'power', 'overthrow', 'corruption', 'continue', 'believe', 'civil', 'legal', 'remedy', 'violence', 'mandatory', 'believe', 'president', 'trump', 'would', 'support', 'military', 'witch', 'democratic', 'party', 'executed', 'high', 'treason', 'corruption', 'false', 'punishable', 'death']"
"['faith', 'montana', 'justice']"
"['hat', 'country', 'done', 'become']"
"['well', 'sure', 'side', 'agree']"
"['believe', 'need', 'person', 'work', 'equality']"
"['place', 'prison', 'see', 'say']"
"['affected', 'human', 'civil', 'keep', 'prison', 'life', 'light', 'killing', 'engaged', 'consenting', 'homosexual', 'oral', 'sex', 'man', 'going', 'marry', 'put', 'prison']"
"['aware', 'leftist']"
"['know', 'hate', 'country', 'full']"
[]
"['understanding', 'system', 'much', 'informed', 'rather', 'common', 'perception', 'seen', 'actual', 'mistreatment', 'prisoner', 'profit', 'system', 'needs']"
"['prison', 'politics', 'politics', 'nutshell']"
"['see', 'importance', 'tolerance']"
"['cause', 'cannot', 'help', 'change', 'tribe', 'help', 'find', 'help', 'pur', 'family']"
"['since', 'false', 'seen', 'want', 'president', 'president', 'president']"
"['power', 'vote', 'path', 'country', 'take', 'define', 'future']"
"['political', 'fact', 'becoming', 'aware', 'state', 'federal', 'situation', 'locked', 'penological', 'system', 'dramatic', 'effect']"
"['used', 'believe', 'justice', 'know', 'better']"
"['really', 'dont', 'care']"
"['time', 'come', 'moor', 'open', 'opinion', 'open', 'minded', 'world', 'politics', 'trump', 'never', 'politics', 'outside', 'prison', 'mead', 'politics', 'fun', 'know', 'friendly', 'person', 'politic', 'times', 'little', 'brash', 'right', 'say', 'president', 'could', 'tould', 'dont', 'think', 'ether', 'side', 'lie', 'tell', 'us', 'want', 'word', 'hurt', 'lot', 'made', 'country', 'better', 'would', 'say', 'havent', 'mead', 'mind', 'yet', 'want', 'country', 'great', 'powerful', 'know', 'war', 'self', 'ether', 'brake', 'us', 'make', 'us', 'better']"
"['yes', 'justice', 'system', 'see', 'political', 'country', 'heading', 'brewing', 'making', 'want', 'help', 'country', 'yet', 'issue', 'prevention', 'weighing', 'opinion', 'correct', 'voting']"
"['vet', 'already', 'upset', 'path', 'country', 'taken', 'anti']"
"['grown', 'emotionally', 'understand']"
"['see', 'money', 'stress', 'corruption', 'correction', 'country']"
"['everyone', 'dune', 'time']"
"['made', 'way', 'thinking']"
"['taken', 'away', 'crime', 'took', 'appeal', 'away', 'justice', 'system', 'get', 'away', 'much', 'truth', 'debate', 'best']"
['crime']
"['see', 'shady', 'acting', 'like', 'spoiled', 'making', 'ashamed']"
"['never', 'thought', 'impact', 'politics', 'much', 'impact', 'us', 'trump', 'messing', 'allies', 'getting', 'away', 'much', 'president', 'law', 'believe', 'congress', 'file', 'criminal']"
"['interest', 'politics', 'life', 'care']"
"['become', 'interested', 'politics', 'understand', 'impact', 'power', 'influence', 'political', 'power']"
"['yes', 'care', 'population', 'montana', 'montana', 'supreme', 'court', 'care', 'innocent', 'prison', 'case', 'see', 'wrong', 'case', 'county', 'case', 'case', 'talk', 'case', 'want', 'conviction', 'case']"
"['made', 'aware', 'going', 'happen']"
"['need', 'one', 'sense', 'earth']"
"['since', 'incarceration', 'want', 'know', 'system', 'history', 'believe', 'need']"
"['us', 'made', 'forget', 'time', 'us', 'need', 'thinking', 'good', 'bad', 'good']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['see', 'hand', 'prison', 'system', 'suppose', 'help', 'dont', 'help', 'funds', 'pocket']"
"['vote', 'opinion', 'goes', 'country']"
"['yes', 'regardless', 'always', 'put', 'want', 'office', 'even', 'know', 'anything', 'old', 'saying', 'goes', 'money', 'walk']"
"['gun', 'violence', 'greatly', 'use', 'really', 'enjoy', 'shooting', 'grew', 'watching', 'terrible', 'happen', 'liberty', 'play', 'another', 'human', 'life', 'give', 'someone', 'launch', 'like', 'think', 'reason', 'gun', 'rifle', 'going', 'hunting', 'whole', 'herd', 'bison', 'home', 'defense', 'probably', 'bring', 'whole', 'house', 'around', 'rifle', 'good', 'see', 'wouldnt', 'anyone', 'else']"
"['great', 'state', 'montana', 'corrupt', 'state', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'change', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'home']"
"['ways', 'always', 'disadvantage', 'country', 'based', 'race', 'even', 'working', 'state', 'college', 'admission', 'office', 'father', 'navy']"
"['justice', 'blind', 'ching', 'hear', 'sound', 'money', 'longer', 'right', 'wrong', 'profit']"
['didnt']
"['believe', 'financial', 'gain', 'especially', 'montana']"
"['personally', 'affected', 'department', 'whereas', 'never', 'experienced', 'incarceration', 'ignorant', 'ways', 'judicial', 'system', 'definitely', 'public', 'rehabilitation', 'control', 'experimentation', 'obey', 'else']"
"['voter', 'get', 'involved', 'process', 'informed', 'solution']"
"['country', 'highest', 'incarceration', 'rate', 'world', 'would', 'support', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'congressman', 'senator', 'would', 'produce', 'support', 'petty', 'drug', 'possession', 'treatment', 'intensive', 'supervision', 'time', 'system', 'attached', 'steering', 'wheel', 'sex', 'unfortunately', 'get', 'successfully', 'complete', 'treatment', 'locked', 'halfway', 'house', 'let', 'inmate', 'earn', 'right', 'outside', 'depending', 'behavior', 'around', 'day', 'close', 'yr', 'incarcerate', 'take', 'money', 'provide', 'treatment', 'life', 'classes', 'addiction', 'like', 'believe', 'child', 'sex', 'addiction', 'sense', 'reality', 'us', 'behave', 'go', 'chosen']"
['yes']
['best']
"['got', 'locked', 'young', 'really', 'care', 'happening', 'country', 'thirteen', 'later', 'may', 'soon', 'entering', 'society', 'would', 'say', 'every', 'thing', 'happening', 'affect', 'us', 'one', 'way', 'another']"
"['never', 'politics', 'truly', 'understood', 'better', 'educated', 'understand', 'important', 'know']"
"['interested', 'system', 'get', 'us', 'back', 'founding', 'father', 'mind', 'stated', 'thinking', 'founding', 'concerned', 'party']"
"['time', 'actually', 'hear', 'soak', 'sides', 'trying', 'saying', 'going', 'pretty', 'interesting', 'stay', 'party', 'backed', 'life', 'end']"
"['matter', 'got', 'voice', 'world', 'small', 'voice', 'need', 'follow', 'politics', 'cause', 'well']"
"['value', 'moral', 'raised', 'affect', 'community', 'importance', 'voice', 'prison', 'matter', 'anyone', 'way', 'matter', 'need', 'contribute', 'voice']"
"['older', 'far', 'age', 'better', 'informed', 'self', 'educated', 'experienced', 'mature', 'socially', 'aware', 'later', 'wish', 'could', 'participate', 'society', 'working', 'paying', 'voting', 'alas', 'citizenship', 'forever', 'lost']"
"['educated', 'political', 'independent', 'vote', 'along', 'party', 'vote', 'think', 'best', 'job', 'matter', 'party', 'belong']"
"['sort', 'yes', 'one', 'story', 'goes', 'thusly', 'prior', 'coming', 'prison', 'basically', 'want', 'mine', 'like', 'way', 'hate', 'exactly', 'kind', 'rand', 'outlook', 'year', 'prison', 'come', 'prayer', 'everything', 'political', 'prior', 'relationship', 'everything', 'came', 'differently', 'met', 'thus', 'little', 'politics', 'inhabited', 'thinking', 'also', 'underwent', 'revolution']"
"['much', 'aware', 'free', 'man']"
"['see', 'government', 'negligent', 'self', 'serving']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['regardless', 'vote', 'put', 'office', 'want', 'feel', 'like', 'hey', 'made', 'history', 'black', 'president', 'put']"
[]
"['growing', 'never', 'thought', 'politics', 'living']"
"['since', 'number', 'voice', 'important', 'enough', 'vote']"
"['thing', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'used', 'personal', 'went', 'extreme', 'liberalism', 'moderate', 'socialist', 'viewpoint']"
"['yes', 'came', 'age', 'really', 'understand', 'care', 'like', 'understand', 'better', 'like', 'health', 'care', 'border', 'security', 'gun', 'violence', 'food', 'think', 'pay', 'attention', 'pay', 'attention', 'late']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'untill', 'got', 'locked']"
"['used', 'believe', 'see', 'evil', 'place', 'run', 'real', 'dope']"
"['starting', 'recognize', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'old', 'party', 'reform', 'justice', 'drug']"
"['understand', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['see', 'corrupt', 'unfair', 'system', 'would', 'vote', 'someone', 'see']"
"['politics', 'subjected', 'unjust', 'running', 'montana', 'state', 'prison', 'system']"
"['stripped', 'od']"
['yes']
"['didnt', 'really', 'political']"
"['able', 'get', 'better', 'understanding', 'government']"
['human']
"['made', 'prejudice', 'made', 'like', 'politics', 'much']"
"['well', 'point', 'paying', 'like', 'see', 'thing', 'care', 'running', 'gay', 'right', 'marry']"
"['wish', 'could', 'sure', 'took', 'every', 'thing', 'away', 'four', 'latter', 'trying', 'give', 'back', 'vote', 'four', 'aid', 'still', 'didnt', 'give', 'us', 'back', 'country', 'fair', 'us']"
"['dont', 'care']"
[]
['watch']
"['voting', 'time', 'opinion', 'much', 'concern', 'right']"
"['think', 'trump', 'best', 'president', 'ever']"
"['become', 'informed', 'political', 'climate', 'happening', 'country', 'time', 'goes', 'honestly', 'think', 'comes', 'age', 'though']"
"['concrete', 'call', 'cell', 'misguided', 'adolescent', 'best', 'locked', 'cell', 'day', 'straight', 'heart', 'mind', 'many', 'thus', 'formulation', 'political', 'today']"
"['waste', 'time']"
"['party', 'dont', 'voice', 'end', 'dont']"
"['never', 'rich', 'colored', 'last', 'slight', 'form', 'equality', 'may']"
"['since', 'initial', 'incarceration', 'law', 'given', 'great', 'appreciation', 'law', 'want', 'active', 'productive', 'member', 'society']"
"['hate', 'fact', 'government', 'particularly', 'take', 'pride', 'family', 'hate', 'every', 'cop', 'involved', 'family', 'nothing', 'sheer', 'joy', 'us']"
"['dont', 'see', 'change', 'one']"
['democratic']
"['cant', 'tell']"
"['right', 'wing', 'conservative', 'moderate']"
"['desire', 'care', 'face', 'humanity']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['yes', 'gang', 'member']"
"['following', 'trump', 'faith', 'structure', 'government', 'reform', 'federal', 'far', 'best', 'president', 'lifetime']"
"['spent', 'time', 'learning', 'prison', 'lived', 'servant', 'know', 'like', 'say', 'live', 'better', 'china', 'living', 'camp', 'affect', 'every', 'thing', 'decide', 'life', 'face', 'death', 'penalty', 'affect', 'everything']"
['country']
"['time', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'world', 'give', 'serious', 'consideration']"
['stupid']
"['become', 'corrupt', 'look', 'rich']"
"['country', 'way', 'used']"
"['better', 'idea', 'tax', 'angry', 'system']"
"['well', 'done', 'lot', 'wrong', 'criminal', 'yes', 'get', 'wrong', 'wrong', 'get', 'away', 'like', 'give', 'input', 'parole', 'see', 'strong', 'suite', 'feel']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'always', 'political', 'stock', 'keeping', 'torn', 'apart', 'monetary', 'gain']"
[]
"['worried', 'family', 'dealing', 'daily']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'made', 'help', 'matter', 'type', 'crime', 'try', 'change', 'one', 'hardly', 'chance']"
"['hate', 'country']"
"['incarceration', 'system', 'make', 'control', 'prison', 'system', 'doc', 'justice', 'know', 'concerned', 'way', 'look', 'affect', 'election', 'party', 'saying', 'care', 'crime', 'long', 'either', 'look', 'good', 'something', 'help', 'next', 'election']"
"['theres', 'money', 'become', 'theres', 'deserve', 'locked', 'dont', 'one', 'government', 'concerned']"
"['much', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'well', 'able', 'believe', 'seem', 'constantly', 'going', 'white', 'house', 'language', 'never', 'sitting', 'president', 'impossible', 'pay', 'attention', 'felon', 'since', 'vote', 'certain', 'made', 'like', 'best', 'pay', 'attention', 'matter', 'vote']"
"['run', 'president']"
"['time', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['aware', 'broken', 'system', 'war', 'without', 'accountability', 'true', 'amendment', 'right', 'press', 'tell', 'side', 'automatically', 'guilty', 'upon', 'arrest', 'forgotten', 'please', 'see']"
"['watched', 'political', 'many', 'filling']"
"['seen', 'injustice']"
"['never', 'untell', 'paying']"
['us']
"['yes', 'ever', 'hateful', 'strongly', 'think', 'need', 'eradicate', 'current', 'restart']"
"['time', 'gather', 'political']"
"['prisoner', 'law', 'crime', 'time', 'however', 'keep', 'locked', 'past', 'discharge', 'unethical', 'wrong']"
"['well', 'dont', 'think', 'long', 'term', 'incarceration', 'answer', 'crime']"
"['watch', 'news', 'informed', 'know', 'want', 'office']"
"['like', 'would', 'rather', 'paying', 'taking', 'care', 'family', 'instead', 'wasting', 'tax', 'money', 'living', 'prison']"
['core']
"['yes', 'dont', 'believe', 'voice', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'sitting', 'hill', 'congress', 'yawning', 'disposed', 'piece', 'paper', 'talking', 'talking', 'garbage', 'policy', 'making', 'six', 'sac', 'lunch', 'many', 'wasted', 'day', 'acceptable', 'something', 'snaps', 'yet', 'must', 'comity', 'counsel', 'vacation', 'holiday', 'yet', 'federal', 'government', 'whole', 'quite', 'growing', 'support', 'us', 'get', 'stand', 'say', 'thats', 'waste', 'poor', 'quite', 'poor', 'funded', 'see', 'fraction', 'grant', 'wasted', 'paying', 'dont', 'want', 'end', 'drag', 'incentive', 'ever', 'end', 'anything', 'example', 'correctional']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'get', 'big']"
"['feel', 'like', 'show', 'class', 'want', 'normal', 'population', 'voting', 'create', 'nation', 'pursuit', 'happiness', 'individual', 'freedom', 'obtain', 'dream']"
"['involved', 'whats', 'world']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'important', 'look', 'running', 'office', 'support']"
[]
['nope']
"['look', 'support']"
"['think', 'country', 'running', 'touch', 'trump', 'something', 'outside', 'standard', 'wrong', 'choice', 'right', 'much', 'baggage', 'someone', 'else', 'think', 'may', 'beaten', 'trump', 'trump']"
"['locked', 'recidivism', 'rate', 'goes']"
"['think', 'impression', 'president', 'everything', 'condescending', 'comes', 'never', 'also', 'needs', 'improperly', 'authority', 'get', 'information']"
"['obviously', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'actually', 'lack', 'vote', 'could', 'vote', 'age', 'knowledge', 'made']"
"['yes', 'really', 'didnt', 'understand', 'much', 'want', 'involved']"
"['met', 'made', 'interesting', 'see', 'look']"
['democrat']
"['well', 'locked', 'facility', 'lower', 'housing', 'unit', 'injustice', 'person', 'go', 'even', 'person', 'innocent', 'dont', 'kind', 'voice', 'everyday', 'giving', 'person', 'whats', 'hole', 'anything', 'strait', 'humane', 'torcher', 'inhumane', 'needs', 'political', 'today']"
"['lost', 'faith', 'justice', 'system']"
"['petty', 'full', 'dangerous']"
[]
"['didnt', 'bother', 'much', 'politics', 'seeing', 'truth', 'come', 'call', 'justice', 'want', 'support', 'someone', 'focus', 'foreign', 'war', 'matter', 'control']"
"['believe', 'true', 'interest', 'personal', 'agenda']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'starting', 'follow']"
['yes']
"['locked', 'everything']"
"['never', 'use', 'care', 'figured', 'way', 'say', 'matter', 'learned', 'statement', 'false', 'live', 'country', 'rule', 'voting', 'powerful', 'tool', 'used', 'change', 'wrong', 'going', 'majority', 'population', 'color', 'would', 'happen', 'whole', 'lot', 'poor', 'uneducated', 'hope', 'better', 'future', 'voting']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'need', 'express', 'matter']"
"['half', 'ago', 'evil']"
"['yes', 'know', 'vote']"
"['learned', 'pro', 'government', 'anti', 'gun', 'believe', 'freedom', 'well', 'right', 'bare', 'arms', 'party', 'sort', 'freedom', 'right', 'bare', 'arms', 'vote', 'stand', 'presidential']"
"['feel', 'like', 'dont', 'voice']"
['yes']
"['realize', 'corrupt', 'bias', 'judicial', 'system', 'plus', 'nothing', 'commodity', 'market', 'pork', 'belly', 'orange', 'juice', 'oil']"
"['see', 'break', 'law', 'cant', 'anything']"
['good']
['yea']
"['really', 'sit', 'time', 'think', 'going', 'world', 'without', 'made', 'decide', 'influence', 'change']"
"['yes', 'belive', 'right', 'vote']"
['ever']
"['simple', 'rich', 'get', 'rest', 'us', 'plea']"
"['nd', 'amendment', 'way', 'never']"
"['pay', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['engaged', 'every', 'level', 'important', 'ever', 'soul', 'preservation', 'good', 'freedom', 'free', 'ignorance', 'apathy']"
['sure']
"['become', 'aware', 'multitude', 'social', 'society', 'unaware']"
"['yes', 'ever', 'matter']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'inmate']"
[]
[]
"['think', 'human', 'crime', 'system']"
['pay']
"['come', 'understand', 'understand', 'politics']"
['yes']
['havent']
"['fact', 'incarceration', 'rather', 'learned', 'since']"
"['everything', 'money']"
"['older', 'see']"
"['time', 'debate']"
[]
"['general', 'public', 'know']"
"['hope', 'god', 'political', 'need']"
"['use', 'proven', 'crazy']"
"['incarceration', 'witness', 'discrimination', 'previously', 'thought', 'dying', 'culture', 'also', 'connected', 'information', 'belief', 'political', 'opinion', 'think', 'one', 'culturally', 'diverse', 'sometimes', 'antagonistic', 'potential', 'individual', 'growth']"
"['need', 'let', 'public', 'know', 'going', 'inside', 'prison', 'public', 'know', 'clew', 'going', 'choose', 'make', 'public', 'usually']"
"['well', 'politically', 'informed']"
"['racism', 'rising', 'along', 'drug', 'abuse', 'organizational', 'profit', 'chosen']"
"['guess', 'see', 'trouble', 'prison', 'doesnt', 'work', 'times']"
[]
"['become', 'aware', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'since']"
['standing']
"['young', 'informed', 'opinion']"
"['used', 'think', 'good', 'crime', 'yrs', 'ago', 'mandatory', 'min', 'sentence', 'ended', 'life', 'never', 'hurt', 'anyone']"
"['attention', 'government', 'political', 'news']"
"['dont', 'care', 'number', 'dollar', 'sign']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'got', 'closer', 'look', 'hand', 'dirty', 'legal', 'system', 'right', 'back']"
"['use', 'voice']"
[]
"['fight', 'native']"
"['well', 'thought', 'trump', 'might', 'good', 'ever', 'wrong']"
['interested']
"['yes', 'used', 'side']"
"['grown', 'aware', 'true', 'realm', 'prison', 'complex', 'social', 'rather', 'criminal', 'mental', 'illness', 'drug', 'addiction', 'broken', 'without', 'perpetuate']"
"['life', 'tend', 'effect', 'generalized', 'anyways', 'change', 'inevitable', 'ability', 'adapt', 'anything', 'else', 'us', 'dominant', 'species', 'planet']"
"['though', 'idea', 'didnt', 'really', 'know', 'either', 'platform', 'knew', 'welfare', 'good', 'incarceration', 'given', 'experience', 'comes', 'age', 'watching', 'news', 'know', 'intended', 'unintended', 'simple', 'ya', 'raise', 'min', 'wage', 'great', 'till', 'understand', 'gallon', 'milk', 'cost', 'us', 'little', 'pay', 'big', 'business']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'like']"
"['havent', 'chance', 'vote']"
"['would', 'like', 'start', 'group', 'back', 'corrupt', 'system', 'really', 'taught', 'water', 'real', 'life', 'tech', 'today', 'slowly', 'need', 'schooling', 'job']"
"['never', 'attention', 'befire']"
"['lean', 'left']"
"['becoming', 'less', 'ignorant', 'politics', 'get', 'older', 'becoming', 'important', 'venture', 'slowly', 'selfish', 'little', 'world', 'built', 'self', 'still', 'knowledgeable', 'like', 'could', 'probably', 'tell']"
"['watched', 'news', 'found']"
"['big', 'deal', 'us', 'forgotten']"
"['wrong', 'individual', 'president', 'trump']"
"['learned', 'deal', 'system', 'general']"
"['prison', 'business', 'see']"
"['needs', 'active', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['looking', 'several', 'us', 'failure', 'government', 'looking', 'reform', 'simple', 'answer', 'lock', 'spend', 'taxpayer', 'money', 'incarceration', 'instead', 'treatment', 'teaching', 'keep', 'addicted', 'bettering', 'country', 'whole', 'country', 'combined', 'world', 'land', 'free', 'â_ù']"
"['locked', 'political', 'since', 'sides', 'gone', 'combination', 'common', 'sense', 'feel', 'inside']"
['want']
"['fallen', 'cant', 'vote']"
"['dont', 'vote']"
"['feel', 'victim', 'system', 'fill', 'instead', 'times', 'relapsing', 'new']"
"['yes', 'authority', 'taught', 'reliable', 'myth', 'daily']"
"['far', 'empathy', 'understanding', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'civil', 'also', 'enlightened', 'bias', 'subject', 'especially', 'black']"
[]
"['yes', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'really', 'care', 'one', 'way']"
[]
"['yes', 'care', 'politics', 'realize', 'much', 'politics', 'directly', 'affect', 'made', 'study', 'research', 'instead', 'apathetic']"
"['yes', 'work', 'education', 'wrongfully', 'centered', 'around', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reintegration', 'ball', 'name', 'rehabilitation', 'still', 'much', 'herd', 'mentality']"
"['yes', 'president', 'made', 'take', 'notice', 'optimistic', 'real', 'change', 'pay', 'attention', 'say']"
"['yes', 'yes', 'political', 'direction', 'incarceration', 'open', 'along', 'mind']"
"['yes', 'politics', 'govern', 'important', 'involved', 'politics', 'especially', 'voting', 'process', 'much', 'house', 'fighting', 'among', 'good']"
"['lifelong', 'democrat', 'family', 'lifelong', 'see', 'directly', 'social', 'safety', 'abstract', 'like', 'generational', 'poverty', 'concrete']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'believe', 'certain', 'core', 'left', 'right']"
"['become', 'student', 'history', 'political', 'theory', 'become', 'sophisticated', 'far', 'political', 'thinking', 'goes', 'aware', 'social', 'contract', 'liberalism']"
"['yes', 'understand']"
"['yes', 'era', 'soy', 'un']"
"['yes', 'watching', 'hearing', 'trump', 'represent', 'country', 'serious']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'better', 'appreciate', 'politics', 'involved', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'considered', 'connection']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'political', 'talk', 'seriously', 'believe', 'lot', 'corruption', 'politics', 'system', 'built', 'white']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'strongly', 'voting', 'never', 'chance', 'know', 'voice', 'could', 'make', 'great']"
"['yes', 'gotten', 'know', 'really', 'vote', 'along', 'moral', 'situational', 'whats', 'best', 'family', 'generally', 'thinking']"
"['yes', 'campus', 'radical', 'late', 'middle', 'road', 'age', 'prison']"
[]
"['yes', 'th', 'grade', 'education', 'living', 'bathroom', 'cell', 'educated', 'see', 'want', 'us', 'effect', 'right', 'change', 'injustice', 'system']"
"['yes', 'better', 'understanding', 'political', 'use', 'guile', 'misdirection', 'gain']"
"['yes', 'politically', 'ignorant', 'care', 'must', 'knowledge', 'participate', 'greatly', 'politics']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'originally', 'political', 'engagement', 'option', 'view', 'obligation', 'duty']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'bush', 'came', 'office', 'see', 'shift', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'trump', 'focus']"
"['vote', 'want', 'bring', 'equal', 'justice']"
"['wronged', 'late', 'program', 'much', 'cost', 'month', 'inmate', 'address', 'paying', 'homeless']"
[]
"['yes', 'learned', 'thing', 'justice', 'rich']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'allow', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'better', 'understanding', 'legislative', 'process', 'represent', 'minority', 'fall', 'sway']"
"['yes', 'subjected', 'post', 'release', 'entire', 'jail', 'sentence', 'jail', 'reform', 'top', 'priority', 'well', 'equal', 'fair', 'treatment', 'equal', 'pay']"
"['yes', 'used', 'associate', 'democrat', 'reading', 'major', 'concur', 'history']"
[]
"['yes', 'coming', 'prison', 'political', 'view', 'us', 'made', 'pay', 'attention', 'view']"
[]
"['yes', 'got', 'older', 'realize', 'needs', 'change']"
"['yes', 'although', 'democrat', 'notice', 'bad', 'political', 'view', 'came', 'conflict', 'state', 'versus', 'federal', 'something', 'know', 'assume', 'one', 'together', 'different']"
[]
"['age', 'ignorantly', 'war', 'blind', 'patriotism', 'would', 'love', 'see', 'war', 'life', 'precious', 'also', 'need', 'focus', 'conservation', 'animal', 'global', 'warm']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'republican', 'everybody', 'theyre', 'corrupt']"
[]
"['yes', 'believe', 'difference', 'believe', 'white', 'men', 'agenda']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'political', 'view', 'strong', 'political', 'view']"
"['still', 'explain', 'simply', 'like', 'office', 'tried', 'sad', 'hard', 'time', 'together', 'always', 'divide', 'us']"
"['yes', 'older', 'got', 'understand', 'community', 'civil', 'business']"
"['always', 'new', 'felt', 'matter', 'like', 'outsider', 'undesirable']"
"['side', 'hear', 'free', 'free', 'free', 'poor', 'less', 'rich', 'made', 'choice', 'everyone', 'equal', 'always', 'equal', 'times']"
"['yes', 'independent', 'prison', 'complete', 'democrat', 'directly', 'involved', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'see', 'grossly', 'unfair', 'unjust', 'system', 'none', 'follow', 'law', 'go', 'personal', 'supposed']"
[]
"['yes', 'extent', 'needs', 'great', 'deal', 'reform', 'done', 'top', 'entire', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'broken', 'politics', 'largely', 'unchanged', 'center', 'right', 'center', 'left']"
"['yes', 'learning', 'might', 'able', 'make', 'difference', 'good']"
"['yes', 'yes', 'bid', 'never', 'understood', 'impact', 'political', 'toward', 'cause', 'one']"
"['yes', 'come', 'understand', 'matter', 'party', 'control', 'comes', 'deficit', 'problem', 'facing', 'country']"
"['yes', 'right', 'way', 'believe', 'country', 'come']"
[]
"['yes', 'pretty', 'good', 'reading', 'add']"
"['yes', 'system', 'broken', 'figure', 'along', 'cycle', 'time', 'along', 'moral', 'life']"
"['yes', 'rd', 'state', 'bid', 'also', 'fact', 'great', 'deal', 'time', 'around', 'yet', 'politically', 'speaking', 'general', 'interest', 'revolve', 'solely', 'around', 'situation', 'hand', 'entire', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'whole']"
"['yes', 'make', 'best', 'place', 'earth', 'cop', 'man', 'thought', 'house', 'got', 'black', 'woman', 'man', 'would', 'never', 'see', 'light', 'day', 'ever']"
[]
"['yes', 'get', 'older', 'understand', 'us', 'make', 'change', 'come']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'like', 'lot', 'support', 'must', 'merit', 'seem', 'working', 'hard', 'becoming', 'successful']"
"['yes', 'swayed', 'left', 'learned', 'lot', 'nancy', 'disgusted', 'ever']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'th', 'amendment']"
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'ever', 'vote', 'republican', 'much', 'compassionate']"
"['yes', 'incarcerate', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'incredibly', 'predatory', 'coercive', 'nature', 'also', 'belief', 'fundamental', 'humanity']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'rhetoric', 'party', 'affiliation', 'longer', 'view', 'character', 'reparation', 'benevolence', 'moral', 'tone']"
"['yes', 'older']"
"['yes', 'care', 'know']"
"['yes', 'came', 'prison', 'care', 'politics', 'understand', 'importance', 'choosing', 'right', 'person', 'elect', 'public', 'office']"
[]
"['yes', 'got', 'know', 'know', 'since', 'really', 'know', 'care', 'one', 'time']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'feel', 'disservice', 'embracing', 'political', 'last', 'forty', 'moreover', 'political', 'view', 'concerning', 'right', 'life', 'unborn', 'certainly', 'since', 'personal', 'encounter', 'lord']"
"['yes', 'democrat', 'independent', 'politics', 'illusion', 'service', 'corruption', 'power']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'one', 'vote', 'change', 'great', 'deal']"
"['yes', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'prior', 'entering', 'prison', 'understand', 'politics', 'think', 'politics', 'black']"
"['become', 'informed', 'hopefully', 'evolve']"
"['yes', 'never', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'apt', 'believe', 'particular', 'politician', 'like', 'character', 'however', 'informed', 'weight', 'accurately']"
[]
"['yes', 'came', 'prison', 'blind', 'politics', 'indifferent', 'learned', 'politics', 'appreciate', 'important', 'black', 'get', 'involved']"
[]
"['yes', 'streets', 'never', 'really', 'watched', 'news', 'informed', 'terrible', 'happening', 'country', 'corrupt']"
[]
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
[]
"['watch', 'news', 'often', 'see', 'going', 'country', 'watch', 'news', 'care']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'need', 'know']"
"['yes', 'political', 'local', 'justice', 'system', 'money', 'mill', 'political', 'machine', 'power']"
"['yes', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'free', 'interested', 'going', 'world']"
"['yes', 'got', 'chance', 'see', 'sideline', 'able', 'point', 'one', 'speaking']"
"['good', 'wood']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'reform']"
"['like', 'worth', 'rather', 'go', 'jail', 'decide']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['free', 'really', 'political', 'concerned', 'new', 'affect', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'depressed']"
"['wood', 'wood']"
"['yes', 'think', 'would', 'change', 'anyone', 'view']"
"['see', 'vote', 'charge', 'making', 'behalf', 'state', 'national', 'level', 'writing', 'passing', 'become', 'may', 'help', 'hurt', 'future']"
"['see', 'political', 'change', 'better', 'save', 'money', 'spend', 'better']"
"['reality', 'judicial', 'system', 'understanding', 'create', 'daily', 'justify', 'poor', 'man', 'say', 'raw', 'end', 'deal', 'completely', 'destroy', 'hurt']"
['helping']
"['yes', 'look']"
"['getting', 'old']"
"['feel', 'like']"
"['feel', 'though', 'penal', 'system', 'heavily', 'statistics', 'make', 'informed', 'many', 'umbrella']"
"['jail', 'prison', 'un', 'motivate']"
"['choose', 'going', 'put', 'office', 'matter', 'look', 'trump']"
"['state', 'privately', 'dwelling', 'privately', 'ran', 'misdemeanor', 'cold', 'hungry']"
"['feel', 'like', 'dont', 'want', 'bother', 'voting', 'cant']"
[]
['thanks']
['yes']
['none']
"['yes', 'time', 'offender', 'never', 'involved', 'politics', 'thought', 'prison', 'matter', 'involve', 'pernicious', 'machine', 'lifetime']"
"['yes', 'become', 'democrat', 'socialist', 'result', 'seeing', 'republican', 'power', 'wealth', 'mongering']"
"['yes', 'time', 'see', 'thing', 'much', 'clearly', 'extra', 'time', 'want', 'need', 'involved', 'choice', 'part', 'system']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'read', 'vote', 'ever', 'family', 'say', 'vote']"
"['want', 'able', 'voice']"
['sure']
[]
"['yes', 'longer', 'believe', 'death', 'penalty', 'removing']"
"['yes', 'idea', 'much', 'wealthy', 'pushing', 'detrimental', 'everyone', 'moral', 'fiber', 'country']"
"['yes', 'become', 'second', 'chance', 'country', 'need', 'change']"
"['yes', 'say', 'yet', 'none', 'really', 'helping', 'us', 'behind', 'dont', 'help', 'us', 'us', 'want', 'come', 'back', 'prison', 'getting', 'help', 'need']"
"['always', 'regardless', 'party', 'platform', 'stood', 'best', 'family', 'community', 'district', 'state']"
[]
"['great', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'prison', 'reform', 'know', 'movement', 'could', 'send', 'prison', 'innocent', 'man', 'evidence', 'get', 'fair', 'trial', 'unbiased', 'begin']"
"['run', 'real', 'deal', 'seen', 'die', 'lack', 'medical', 'care', 'die', 'starvation', 'seen', 'degraded', 'lack', 'hygiene', 'violence', 'alone', 'rampant', 'sex', 'get', 'need', 'survive', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'become', 'moderate', 'see', 'extremism', 'tearing', 'us', 'apart']"
"['see', 'throw', 'away', 'attitude', 'toward', 'total', 'lack', 'rehabilitation', 'available', 'prison']"
[]
"['yes', 'used', 'pro', 'choice', 'pro', 'life', 'open', 'meeting', 'several']"
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'want', 'understand', 'politics', 'affect', 'life']"
"['yes', 'necessarily', 'say', 'political', 'may', 'still', 'able', 'articulate', 'exactly', 'learn', 'politics', 'work', 'toward', 'deem', 'important']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'care', 'us', 'assume', 'since', 'state', 'convict', 'us', 'whatever', 'crime', 'nothing', 'like', 'care', 'whats', 'going', 'come', 'back', 'home', 'whatever', 'thats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'parole', 'system', 'needs', 'overhaul', 'shameful', 'see', 'system']"
[]
['business']
[]
"['yes', 'crime', 'allow', 'pro', 'se', 'work', 'legal', 'one', 'political', 'expose', 'void', 'disciplinary', 'bar', 'biggest', 'crime', 'conspiracy', 'ever', 'told']"
"['still', 'believe', 'beautiful', 'country', 'made', 'mistake', 'learned', 'lot', 'experience', 'cause', 'listen', 'going', 'world', 'affect', 'us', 'whole', 'prison', 'free']"
"['yes', 'educated', 'politics', 'see', 'government']"
"['yes', 'staunch', 'republican', 'rush', 'free', 'world', 'seeing', 'prison', 'system', 'run', 'however', 'see', 'us', 'want', 'lock', 'us', 'throw', 'away', 'key']"
"['really', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'us', 'see', 'clear', 'feel', 'political', 'need', 'important', 'know', 'really', 'faced', 'make', 'new']"
['conservative']
"['less', 'government']"
"['seen', 'corpus']"
"['much', 'towards', 'needs', 'judicial', 'reform']"
"['aware', 'effect']"
"['major', 'office']"
"['much', 'exposure', 'justice', 'system']"
"['everything', 'fair']"
"['always', 'wore', 'democrat', 'hat', 'since', 'locked', 'come', 'realize', 'republican', 'constitutional', 'preservation', 'constitution']"
"['become', 'interested', 'prison', 'reform', 'used', 'opinion', 'broke', 'law', 'locked', 'however', 'distinguish', 'acutely', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'living', 'penal', 'system', 'care', 'say', 'someone', 'finally', 'expose', 'enemy']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'see', 'whole', 'lot']"
[]
"['yes', 'reason', 'say', 'yes', 'everything', 'put', 'agree', 'time']"
[]
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'live', 'know', 'live', 'every', 'day', 'story', 'need', 'time', 'fight']"
"['lot', 'right', 'need', 'see', 'serious']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'politics', 'felt', 'matter', 'whatever', 'going', 'benefit', 'kind', 'benefit', 'would', 'minimally']"
[]
[]
"['incarceration', 'realize', 'amount', 'racism', 'politics', 'came', 'head', 'trump', 'presidency', 'made', 'want', 'scream', 'shout', 'demand']"
"['conservative', 'mostly', 'yet', 'life', 'without', 'parole', 'know', 'pushing', 'prison', 'reform', 'want', 'yet', 'struggle', 'accept', 'come']"
"['yes', 'seem', 'like', 'vote', 'count']"
"['living', 'society', 'worried', 'politics', 'caught', 'concerned', 'happening', 'world', 'around']"
"['yes', 'never', 'thought', 'importance', 'vote', 'would', 'know', 'face']"
"['always', 'right', 'still', 'remains']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'get', 'lot', 'time', 'small', 'get', 'time', 'big', 'back', 'something', 'needs', 'change']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'must', 'follow', 'govern', 'human', 'body']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'prison', 'become', 'exposed', 'great', 'penal', 'justice', 'system', 'alike', 'poor', 'man', 'may', 'innocent', 'may', 'spend', 'rest', 'life', 'prison', 'afford', 'proper', 'legal', 'representation', 'guilt', 'man', 'money', 'may', 'go', 'free', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'mainly', 'approach', 'prison', 'reform', 'believe', 'make', 'change']"
"['yes', 'us', 'know', 'good', 'person', 'made', 'bad', 'decision']"
"['yes', 'accountable', 'human', 'citizen', 'want', 'better', 'help', 'understand', 'big', 'pict', 'also', 'us', 'need', 'love', 'compassion', 'god', 'actual', 'know', 'self', 'hard', 'see', 'create', 'president', 'law', 'maker']"
"['yes', 'see', 'hand', 'treat', 'mass', 'different']"
"['yes', 'new', 'president', 'learning', 'new']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'never', 'gave', 'politics', 'much', 'thought', 'time', 'care', 'dont']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'figured', 'opinion', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'see', 'truth']"
"['yes', 'let', 'white', 'house']"
"['program', 'tell', 'become', 'better', 'man']"
"['yes', 'political', 'campaign']"
"['united', 'us', 'still', 'prejudice']"
"['always', 'hopefully', 'grace', 'god', 'may', 'able', 'vote']"
"['black', 'man', 'expect', 'one', 'thing', 'norm']"
[]
"['yes', 'actually', 'get', 'see', 'effect', 'human']"
[]
"['one', 'really', 'help', 'one', 'another', 'since', 'strived', 'learn', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'lot', 'time', 'read', 'lot', 'lot', 'lot']"
"['glaring', 'big', 'business']"
"['way', 'like', 'human', 'money', 'dont', 'wont', 'better', 'self', 'keep', 'coming', 'back']"
['answer']
"['learned', 'lot', 'whats', 'really', 'going']"
"['need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['feel', 'like', 'shut', 'stupid', 'made']"
"['jail', 'energy', 'goes', 'fighting', 'freedom']"
"['figured', 'justice', 'system', 'employment', 'system', 'respect', 'see']"
"['hate', 'wrong', 'like', 'thought', 'trump', 'good', 'nope']"
"['free', 'world', 'never', 'took', 'time', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'country', 'thats', 'find', 'sober', 'watching', 'news', 'informed', 'whats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'really', 'believe', 'every', 'vote', 'free', 'country', 'really', 'voicing', 'ballot']"
"['used', 'republican', 'yet', 'gravitate', 'democracy']"
['trump']
"['strong', 'towards', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'democracy']"
"['fight', 'unjust', 'system']"
"['lost', 'hidden', 'prison', 'usually', 'hear', 'prison', 'hear', 'overcrowded', 'living', 'sub', 'par', 'well', 'nutrition', 'low', 'good', 'technology', 'far', 'behind', 'real', 'world', 'get', 'easy', 'relapse', 'need', 'place', 'shorten', 'based', 'performance', 'even', 'community', 'custody', 'time', 'teach', 'ways', 'support', 'outside', 'let', 'earn', 'ways', 'able', 'successful', 'outside']"
"['yes', 'since', 'political', 'view', 'felon', 'although', 'made', 'huge', 'mistake', 'doesnt', 'mean', 'horrible', 'person', 'stuck', 'prison', 'twenty', 'five', 'murder', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'since', 'locked', 'part', 'problem', 'learned', 'lesson', 'lengthy', 'release', 'date', 'stuck', 'long', 'term', 'change', 'issue', 'government', 'always', 'win', 'like']"
"['notice', 'side', 'dont', 'really', 'know', 'ur', 'put', 'place', 'us']"
"['never', 'much', 'persecute', 'look', 'like', 'look', 'paper', 'feel', 'everyone', 'story', 'everyone', 'help', 'make', 'world', 'better', 'place', 'shown', 'love', 'acceptance']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'combat', 'recidivism', 'top', 'priority']"
['sure']
"['see', 'nobody', 'really', 'side', 'everyone', 'become', 'forget', 'us']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'able', 'vote', 'wath', 'believe']"
"['yes', 'realize']"
[]
['everyone']
[]
"['try', 'get', 'vote', 'back']"
"['know', 'looking', 'inside', 'like']"
"['yes', 'lack', 'dont', 'right', 'vote']"
"['need', 'change']"
"['change', 'either', 'become', 'inmate', 'affected', 'family', 'member', 'discover', 'media', 'effect', 'negative', 'way']"
"['want', 'free', 'stop', 'prison', 'profit']"
"['help', 'really', 'understand', 'whats', 'really', 'going', 'world']"
"['used', 'sex', 'registration', 'seeing', 'many', 'sex', 'offense', 'wife', 'wife', 'think', 'certain', 'able', 'cry', 'rape', 'think', 'certain', 'shouldnt', 'register', 'instance', 'guy', 'caught', 'public', 'shouldnt', 'register', 'land', 'free', 'hurting', 'anyone', 'really', 'change']"
"['interested', 'used']"
['yes']
"['five', 'percent', 'world', 'population', 'twenty', 'five', 'percent', 'illegal', 'free']"
['yes']
"['seen', 'inside', 'system', 'works', 'theres', 'good']"
"['feel', 'like', 'matter', 'vote', 'wont', 'matter', 'please']"
"['yes', 'understanding', 'see', 'every', 'day', 'news', 'talk']"
"['yea', 'dont', 'really', 'get']"
"['yes', 'see', 'world', 'right', 'minded', 'sober']"
"['yes', 'watching', 'news', 'everyday', 'see', 'mess', 'country', 'moment']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'going', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'going']"
"['need', 'vote']"
"['never', 'attention', 'reason', 'time']"
"['met', 'intelligent', 'strong', 'creative', 'effective', 'many', 'already', 'world', 'around', 'even', 'though', 'continue', 'face', 'stigma', 'believe', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'wrong', 'majority', 'known', 'would', 'never', 'prison', 'better', 'education', 'advocate', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'little', 'opportunity', 'rehabilitation', 'men', 'face', 'society']"
"['motivation', 'time', 'watch', 'learn', 'read', 'works', 'political', 'prince', 'given', 'perspective', 'constitution', 'differ', 'idealistic', 'form', 'come', 'realization', 'special', 'interest', 'practice', 'career', 'follow', 'blindly', 'every', 'view', 'matter', 'truth', 'contrary', 'causing', 'country', 'blindly', 'following', 'listen', 'half', 'clouded', 'follow', 'indignation', 'think', 'know', 'one', 'lead', 'stop', 'easily', 'found', 'example', 'sex', 'high', 'risk', 'offend', 'need', 'sex', 'offender', 'registration', 'help', 'law', 'enforcement', 'keep']"
"['far', 'normal', 'fluctuate', 'based', 'upon', 'propaganda', 'experience', 'daily']"
"['political', 'living', 'complete', 'opposite', 'life', 'everyone', 'piece', 'crap', 'criminal', 'think', 'prison', 'reform', 'serious', 'thing', 'needs']"
['nexus']
['really']
"['government', 'like', 'fill', 'state', 'federal', 'treatment', 'also', 'allow', 'streets', 'truly', 'government', 'random', 'happen', 'around', 'happen', 'purpose', 'enact', 'law', 'law', 'enforcement', 'possess']"
['really']
"['never', 'locked', 'hole', 'life', 'since', 'never', 'never', 'vote', 'voting', 'system', 'really', 'know', 'works']"
"['grown', 'interested', 'works', 'wish', 'learn']"
"['gritten', 'girly', 'face', 'live', 'comfortably', 'crazy', 'done', 'keep', 'dont', 'wit', 'real', 'wit', 'buckle', 'still', 'buckle']"
"['si', 'mi', 'es', 'yo', 'mi', 'de', 'tube', 'un', 'en', 'mi', 'es', 'un', 'para', 'mi', 'se', 'en', 'las', 'familia', 'yo', 'se', 'ai', 'para', 'soy', 'un', 'la', 'de', 'ala', 'para', 'mi', 'es', 'solo', 'un', 'de', 'pintura', 'para', 'yo', 'ala', 'en', 'mi', 'padre', 'para', 'de', 'la', 'para', 'ala', 'ala', 'de', 'os', 'yo', 'para', 'ami', 'la', 'mas', 'para', 'dinero', 'para', 'comer', 'en', 'la', 'solo', 'se', 'leer', 'mi', 'yo', 'se', 'leer', 'la', 'de', 'un', 'err']"
"['see', 'suffering', 'disaster', 'petty', 'going', 'supposed', 'thats', 'right', 'dont', 'deserve', 'feel', 'like', 'cant', 'address', 'president', 'feel', 'like', 'race', 'religion', 'personal', 'interest', 'period', 'president', 'rude', 'wrong', 'chaos', 'question', 'loyalty', 'us']"
"['never', 'really', 'informed', 'felt', 'like', 'affected', 'stay', 'informed', 'opinion', 'feel', 'affected']"
"['learned', 'different', 'political', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'use', 'give', 'flying']"
"['discovery', 'good', 'grief']"
"['want', 'involved']"
"['used', 'never', 'care']"
"['vote', 'pick', 'us']"
"['yes', 'talk', 'ran', 'facility', 'need', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['political', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'around']"
"['rightly', 'care', 'politics', 'want', 'best', 'family', 'course', 'world']"
"['yes', 'broad', 'scope', 'yet', 'individual', 'breaking', 'needs', 'unique', 'individual', 'well', 'leading', 'often', 'right', 'place', 'help', 'beforehand', 'could', 'example', 'dont', 'believe', 'jail', 'prison', 'always', 'option', 'mostly', 'suffer', 'addiction', 'sort']"
"['well', 'interest', 'yet', 'grow', 'learn', 'self', 'respect', 'want', 'part', 'make', 'change']"
"['go', 'prison', 'scum']"
"['strongly', 'dont', 'trust']"
[]
"['jail', 'joke']"
"['mostly', 'dont', 'really', 'care', 'much', 'opinion', 'subject', 'matter', 'since', 'cant', 'vote']"
"['opinionated', 'towards']"
"['little', 'interest', 'general', 'public', 'say', 'incarceration', 'actually', 'gave', 'insight', 'real', 'opinion', 'politics', 'educated', 'old', 'school', 'fact', 'check', 'research', 'answer']"
[]
"['see', 'political', 'due', 'racial', 'form']"
"['range', 'none', 'sometimes', 'outrageous']"
"['due', 'illegal', 'cop', 'tactic', 'news', 'afraid', 'due']"
"['murder', 'think', 'wrong', 'speaking']"
"['cause', 'corrupt', 'county', 'city', 'state', 'wa']"
"['care', 'due', 'impact', 'life']"
"['would', 'like', 'say', 'future']"
[]
"['spent', 'years', 'behind', 'civics', 'wit', 'thought', 'cool', 'didnt', 'understand', 'setup', 'part', 'back', 'biting', 'opposition', 'within', 'political', 'arena', 'become', 'joke', 'realize', 'beyond', 'reproach', 'adultery', 'privacy', 'concern']"
['politics']
"['want', 'get', 'finish', 'movie']"
['great']
"['yes', 'see', 'everything', 'whole']"
[]
"['become', 'moderate']"
"['days', 'loosing', 'become', 'award', 'state']"
['racily']
"['id', 'rather', 'share']"
"['finding', 'seeing', 'hand', 'us']"
['yes']
"['experienced', 'injustice', 'justice', 'system']"
[]
"['one', 'interested', 'due', 'education', 'jail', 'county', 'jail', 'ever', 'seen', 'life', 'time']"
"['yes', 'vote', 'dont', 'vote', 'cant', 'complain']"
"['feel', 'like']"
[]
"['every', 'day', 'learning', 'experience']"
"['belive', 'locked', 'petty', 'ass']"
"['like', 'everything', 'political', 'feel', 'everything']"
"['dont', 'answer']"
"['want', 'part', 'world', 'make']"
"['think', 'need', 'exercise']"
"['ever', 'since', 'let', 'nigger', 'become', 'country', 'went']"
"['think', 'everything', 'since', 'locked']"
"['political', 'mostly', 'legal', 'system', 'experienced', 'hand', 'sad', 'say', 'experience', 'shown', 'legal', 'system', 'flawed', 'foundation', 'turn', 'hold', 'little', 'faith', 'justice', 'system', 'rehabilitate', 'incorporate', 'society', 'contrary', 'experience', 'shown', 'government', 'easier', 'already', 'offended', 'return', 'prison', 'fashion', 'revolving', 'door', 'found', 'becoming', 'victim', 'recidivism', 'one', 'incarceration', 'commit', 'crime', 'however', 'serve', 'sentence', 'turn', 'payed', 'debt', 'society', 'dont', 'feel', 'fair', 'many', 'like', 'disadvantage', 'inequality', 'past', 'maybe', 'country', 'needs', 'look', 'crime', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'left', 'little']"
"['system', 'health']"
"['patient', 'always']"
"['watched', 'news']"
"['yes', 'think', 'unfair', 'dont', 'get', 'vote', 'feel', 'strongly', 'matter', 'weve', 'done', 'time', 'ways', 'feel', 'get', 'vote', 'could', 'make', 'difference', 'voice', 'dont', 'define', 'us']"
"['punishment', 'sometimes', 'harsh', 'crime']"
"['dont', 'agree', 'law', 'enforcement']"
"['corrupt', 'law', 'enforcement', 'court', 'like']"
"['become', 'aware', 'massive', 'corruption', 'inherent', 'system']"
['democrat']
"['yes', 'prior', 'prison', 'relatively', 'since', 'confinement', 'concept', 'humanism']"
"['yes', 'since', 'prison', 'thinking', 'pattern', 'lock', 'good', 'believe', 'nd', 'chance']"
"['yes', 'involved', 'see', 'hand', 'going', 'corruption', 'unfairness', 'say', 'one', 'thing', 'make', 'want', 'involved', 'could', 'something', 'help']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'sent', 'prison', 'every', 'little', 'reason', 'justice', 'system', 'broken']"
"['yes', 'president', 'political', 'completely']"
[]
[]
"['feel', 'parole', 'board', 'chance', 'chance', 'keep', 'coming', 'back', 'stay', 'trouble', 'never', 'get', 'trouble', 'follow', 'go', 'school', 'better', 'never', 'get', 'chance', 'parole']"
"['yes', 'bit']"
['full']
"['never', 'considered', 'prison', 'population', 'prison', 'reform', 'came', 'plus', 'never', 'considered', 'socioeconomic', 'predisposed', 'become']"
"['change', 'life']"
"['used', 'vote', 'would', 'could']"
"['made', 'look', 'way', 'life', 'differently']"
[]
"['importance', 'vote', 'good', 'government']"
"['see', 'really', 'care']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'would', 'affect', 'criminal', 'huge', 'way', 'facility', 'discourage']"
"['perspective', 'different']"
['comment']
"['see', 'need']"
[]
"['yes', 'believe', 'western', 'democratic', 'political', 'arena', 'failure', 'fraudulent', 'everything', 'working', 'towards', 'fulfillment', 'corrupt', 'clandestine', 'welfare', 'populace', 'also', 'world', 'whole']"
"['voting', 'one', 'forward', 'participation', 'involved', 'make', 'true', 'change']"
"['always', 'known', 'system', 'perfect', 'especially', 'sight', 'mind', 'idea', 'many', 'live', 'drastically', 'justice', 'system', 'way', 'fact', 'also', 'severely', 'affected', 'system', 'needs', 'overhaul', 'along', 'many', 'need', 'work', 'together', 'compromise', 'greater', 'good', 'cause', 'need', 'analyze', 'interpret', 'thoroughly', 'talk', 'needs', 'redemption', 'change', 'dont', 'go', 'talk', 'find', 'amplify', 'good']"
"['able', 'look', 'different', 'set']"
"['came', 'prison', 'yes', 'ago', 'didnt', 'understand', 'politics', 'didnt', 'know', 'government', 'conservative']"
"['prison', 'found', 'lord', 'world', 'totally', 'correct']"
['keep']
"['seen', 'insensitive']"
"['would', 'like', 'believe', 'become', 'aware', 'social', 'world', 'general']"
"['come', 'libertarian', 'outlook', 'politics']"
"['see', 'politics', 'throughout', 'nation']"
"['see', 'side']"
"['yes', 'mouthing', 'gig', 'gubernatorial', 'juju']"
"['justice', 'system', 'punishment', 'dont', 'lawyer', 'justice']"
"['listen', 'sides', 'forming', 'opinion']"
"['grew', 'thinking', 'everything', 'always', 'clear', 'cut', 'thought', 'wasnt', 'republican', 'wasnt', 'right', 'come', 'understand', 'times', 'recession', 'need', 'democrat', 'bottom', 'economics', 'order', 'stabilize', 'economy', 'need', 'republican', 'trickle', 'economics', 'grow', 'economy', 'idiot', 'like', 'bush', 'trump']"
"['going', 'put', 'way', 'much', 'going', 'days', 'make', 'think', 'world', 'end']"
['progressive']
"['different', 'outlook']"
"['thats', 'hard', 'question', 'different', 'political', 'see', 'different', 'perspective', 'prison', 'reform', 'biggest', 'issue', 'right']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'going', 'prison', 'system', 'seeing', 'hand', 'politics', 'involved', 'get', 'percentage', 'everything']"
"['seen', 'much', 'voice', 'factor']"
"['army', 'right', 'thing', 'felony', 'see', 'want', 'best']"
"['care', 'much', 'anything', 'coming', 'prison', 'thrust', 'seeing', 'pain', 'hearts', 'given', 'love', 'want', 'help', 'plan', 'change', 'needs', 'come', 'way', 'done', 'see', 'see', 'need', 'vote', 'important', 'attitude', 'used', 'saying', 'goes', 'change', 'start']"
"['simple', 'trump']"
[]
"['doesnt', 'matter']"
"['make', 'great', 'decision', 'fit', 'right', 'place', 'take', 'care', 'business', 'lie']"
"['sure', 'probably', 'fact', 'lot', 'older', 'see', 'much', 'differently', 'idealistic', 'young', 'girl', 'girl', 'always', 'saw', 'best', 'really', 'trying', 'solve', 'realist', 'realize', 'world', 'never', 'going', 'utopia', 'like', 'sandbox', 'two', 'one', 'shovel', 'neither', 'bucket', 'getting', 'filled', 'busy', 'shovel']"
"['incarceration', 'busy', 'care', 'since', 'time', 'slow', 'without', 'worldly', 'distraction', 'come', 'understand', 'important', 'care', 'teach', 'care']"
"['tend', 'little', 'liberal']"
"['willing', 'listen', 'opposing']"
"['president', 'really', 'done', 'good', 'job', 'done']"
"['different', 'view']"
"['gun', 'ownership', 'abuser', 'gun', 'knew', 'gun', 'house', 'would', 'never', 'would', 'never', 'heart', 'stab', 'gun', 'made', 'impersonal', 'easy', 'quick', 'dead', 'also', 'got', 'locked', 'school', 'another', 'huge', 'reason', 'want']"
"['didnt', 'really', 'political', 'view', 'coming', 'prison', 'never', 'attention', 'issue']"
"['thought', 'differently', 'criminal', 'justice', 'seen', 'unfairness', 'many', 'actually', 'mentally', 'ill', 'locked', 'without', 'help', 'need', 'also', 'prison', 'rehabilitation', 'like', 'human', 'warehouse', 'many', 'time', 'serving', 'matter', 'crime', 'given', 'second', 'chance', 'third', 'fourth', 'fifth', 'chance', 'true', 'second', 'chance', 'proven', 'authority', 'behavior', 'institutional', 'record', 'deserve', 'chance', 'back', 'prove', 'law', 'abiding', 'citizen', 'prison', 'reform', 'many', 'depending']"
"['honestly', 'feel', 'anyone', 'drug', 'addict', 'given', 'treatment', 'disease', 'addiction', 'instead', 'several', 'taken', 'extra', 'stress', 'tend', 'support', 'us']"
"['stand', 'republican', 'side', 'still', 'democratic']"
"['become', 'informed', 'since', 'incarnation', 'reading']"
"['used', 'believe', 'system', 'see', 'much', 'corruption']"
"['needs', 'change', 'profiting', 'us', 'livestock']"
"['actually', 'conservative', 'even', 'though', 'opposite', 'would', 'likely']"
['always']
"['got', 'locked', 'interest', 'politics', 'voting', 'interest', 'politics', 'realize', 'view', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'make', 'difference', 'starting', 'always', 'told', 'could', 'vote', 'know', 'lie', 'want', 'say', 'office', 'want', 'vote', 'make', 'benefit']"
"['locked', 'different', 'perspective']"
"['coming', 'faith', 'world', 'view', 'political']"
"['theres', 'political', 'voice', 'speaking']"
"['didnt', 'truly', 'twenty', 'ago', 'time', 'positive', 'incarceration', 'age']"
"['clear', 'view', 'thing', 'mind', 'right', 'took', 'least', 'two', 'locked', 'mind', 'get', 'right']"
"['since', 'life', 'pay', 'attention', 'everything', 'going', 'wish', 'ability', 'vote']"
['liberal']
"['person', 'conscientious', 'decision', 'accept', 'lord', 'savior', 'change', 'henceforth', 'according', 'progression', 'spiritual', 'knowledge', 'revelation']"
"['young', 'got', 'locked', 'gotten', 'older', 'watched', 'horribly', 'wrong', 'everything', 'gotten', 'made', 'want', 'get', 'involved', 'learn', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'able', 'make', 'difference']"
"['need', 'serious', 'wrong', 'within', 'country', 'example', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'homelessness', 'hunger', 'ever', 'growing', 'oppression', 'poor', 'public', 'needs', 'aware', 'turned', 'police', 'state', 'way', 'political', 'system', 'thus', 'conscious', 'politics', 'ever']"
"['way', 'law', 'works', 'needs', 'help']"
"['could', 'less', 'politics', 'younger', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'believe', 'better', 'informed', 'make', 'decision', 'could', 'care', 'less', 'responsibility', 'taking', 'care', 'country', 'country', 'wear', 'much', 'sleeve']"
"['wish', 'still']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'die', 'hard', 'democratic', 'incarceration', 'clearly', 'see', 'democratic', 'party', 'used', 'poor', 'color']"
"['almost', 'didnt', 'political', 'view', 'got', 'locked', 'since', 'forced', 'around', 'different', 'racially', 'culturally', 'many', 'life', 'many', 'many', 'fundamental', 'us', 'love', 'want', 'vote', 'going', 'best', 'since', 'personally', 'pretty', 'much', 'toast']"
"['learned', 'world', 'work']"
"['see', 'society', 'want', 'give', 'chance']"
"['strongly', 'felt', 'woman', 'capable', 'running', 'great', 'country']"
"['life', 'chang', 'see', 'life', 'really']"
"['saw', 'meaning', 'affected', 'higher', 'priority', 'see', 'community', 'need', 'work', 'achieve', 'helping', 'around', 'us', 'change', 'see', 'nation', 'today', 'used', 'supporter', 'particular', 'political', 'party', 'support', 'one', 'feel', 'strongly', 'without', 'rest', 'political', 'however', 'tend', 'look', 'candidate', 'vote', 'one', 'party', 'regardless']"
"['yeah', 'somewhat', 'would', 'love', 'see', 'lot', 'change']"
"['raised', 'trust', 'raised', 'church', 'good', 'home', 'child', 'married', 'good', 'man', 'great', 'thought', 'honest', 'lady', 'worked', 'us', 'grocery', 'store', 'husband', 'pa', 'made', 'theatrical', 'play', 'found', 'us', 'guilty', 'never', 'one', 'husband', 'dressed', 'supreme', 'court', 'wife', 'supreme', 'court', 'justice', 'time', 'given', 'new', 'trial', 'received', 'life', 'sentence', 'years', 'yes', 'political', 'god', 'survive', 'sorry', 'long']"
"['become', 'concerned', 'fight', 'agenda', 'hatred', 'aware', 'anti', 'need', 'nation', 'stand']"
"['concerned', 'government', 'incarceration', 'government']"
"['well', 'prison', 'never', 'political', 'family', 'took', 'political', 'however', 'research', 'come', 'upon', 'research']"
['trump']
"['open', 'minded']"
"['think', 'someone', 'care', 'willing', 'help']"
"['cause', 'chance', 'vote', 'opinion']"
"['law', 'corrupt', 'person', 'white', 'collar', 'crime']"
"['know', 'political', 'since', 'came', 'prison', 'time', 'offender', 'never', 'read', 'book', 'add', 'raised', 'domestically', 'abusive', 'household', 'severe', 'sexual', 'abuse', 'boy', 'scout', 'leader', 'didnt', 'know', 'believe', 'world', 'certainly', 'politics', 'concerned', 'prison', 'would', 'survive', 'facing', 'life', 'without', 'parole', 'emotionally', 'wasnt', 'place', 'contemplate', 'power', 'outside', 'hurt', 'similar', 'took', 'able', 'share', 'truth', 'lead', 'begin', 'discover', 'consider', 'would', 'someone', 'shaping', 'legislation', 'think', 'fighting', 'learn', 'grow', 'inner', 'belief', 'fight', 'keep', 'government', 'growing']"
"['dont', 'vote', 'complain', 'life', 'vote', 'chance']"
"['still', 'dislike', 'politics', 'general', 'see', 'doesnt']"
"['prison', 'sentence', 'see', 'system', 'faith', 'get', 'right']"
"['become', 'conservative', 'although', 'believe', 'need', 'receive', 'assistance', 'life', 'immoral', 'one', 'suffer', 'hunger']"
"['interested', 'politics']"
"['political', 'since', 'grown', 'lot', 'since', 'taught', 'think']"
"['news', 'comes', 'either', 'talking', 'mass', 'shooting', 'assault', 'police', 'shot', 'another', 'unarmed']"
['need']
"['war', 'politics', 'trying', 'become', 'peaceful', 'united']"
"['go', 'hand', 'hand', 'like', 'ignorance', 'fear', 'walk', 'hand', 'hand', 'part', 'law', 'reform', 'money', 'law', 'legal', 'well', 'thing', 'world', 'better', 'found', 'done', 'involved', 'foundational', 'thing', 'nation', 'great', 'right', 'put', 'action', 'voting', 'thing']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'understand', 'good', 'point', 'comes', 'particular', 'political']"
['question']
"['used', 'mostly', 'liberal', 'conservative']"
"['sober', 'going', 'really']"
"['use', 'think', 'prison', 'right', 'vote']"
"['longer', 'believe', 'life', 'offense', 'unusually', 'brutal', 'depraved', 'either', 'sentence', 'death', 'allow', 'chance', 'rehabilitation', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'poorly', 'ran', 'system', 'affect']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'politics']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'since']"
"['totally', 'different', 'system', 'thought', 'system', 'fair', 'righteous', 'bigger', 'lock', 'simply', 'dont', 'prosecute']"
[]
"['past', 'incarceration', 'aware', 'politics', 'president', 'little', 'thought', 'rehabilitation', 'release', 'focus', 'release', 'black', 'drug', 'federal', 'level', 'providing', 'second', 'chance', 'repeat', 'behavior', 'president', 'trump', 'forgotten', 'left']"
"['way', 'look']"
"['aware', 'ever']"
['trump']
"['would', 'prison', 'one', 'vote', 'never', 'got', 'never', 'able', 'vote', 'lifer']"
"['around', 'system', 'lot', 'change']"
"['gotten', 'intense', 'political', 'conversation', 'expanded']"
"['since', 'long', 'seen', 'crazy', 'drug', 'time', 'anyone']"
"['think', 'prison', 'needs', 'seen', 'different', 'view', 'willing', 'try', 'get', 'voting', 'getting', 'voice']"
['almost']
"['feel', 'like', 'doesnt', 'even', 'concern']"
"['yes', 'quite', 'lot', 'however', 'cannot', 'type', 'ill', 'type', 'anything']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'life', 'parole', 'formed', 'type', 'political', 'time', 'imprisonment', 'formed', 'since', 'coming', 'prison', 'even', 'since', 'death']"
['listen']
"['know', 'say', 'want']"
"['sent', 'prison', 'see', 'daily', 'basis', 'inside', 'get', 'almost', 'constant', 'beat', 'instead', 'uplifting', 'change', 'able', 'change', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'life', 'sometimes', 'forced', 'drug', 'use', 'would', 'think', 'normal', 'circumstance', 'believe', 'anyone', 'change', 'matter', 'done', 'past', 'repeat', 'behavior', 'future']"
"['years', 'old', 'came', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics', 'since', 'got', 'older', 'mid', 'tend', 'watch']"
"['yes', 'learned', 'god', 'way', 'living']"
"['democrat', 'however', 'become', 'republican']"
"['looking', 'outside', 'incarceration', 'didnt', 'know', 'bad', 'corrupt', 'prison', 'system', 'truly', 'daily', 'skillfully', 'hidden', 'public', 'like', 'free', 'world', 'got', 'caught', 'honestly', 'done', 'something', 'illegal', 'wasnt', 'caught']"
"['got', 'didnt', 'even', 'opinion', 'well', 'lot']"
"['care', 'charge']"
"['become', 'consciously', 'awaken']"
"['past', 'politics', 'bearing', 'also', 'curious', 'make', 'contribution', 'society']"
"['become', 'aware', 'importance', 'united', 'need', 'remain', 'free', 'vote', 'country', 'founding', 'originally', 'established', 'constitution', 'simple', 'sure', 'true', 'never', 'since', 'learned', 'lot']"
"['used', 'care', 'political', 'see', 'really', 'matter', 'decision', 'end', 'better', 'make', 'worse', 'us', 'inside', 'care']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'much', 'got', 'locked', 'thank', 'lot', 'thing', 'never', 'really', 'thought']"
"['pawn', 'corruption', 'department', 'parole', 'dramatically']"
"['made', 'concern', 'politics', 'need', 'express', 'much', 'opinionated', 'thought', 'didnt', 'matter', 'see', 'truly', 'know', 'compassionately', 'driven', 'greater', 'good']"
"['never', 'really', 'interested', 'politics', 'prison', 'important']"
"['locked', 'really', 'didnt', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'political', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'concerned', 'opinionated']"
"['never', 'vote', 'party', 'cause']"
"['use', 'believe', 'lock', 'away', 'key', 'deserve', 'another', 'dance', 'redemption']"
"['prison', 'shown', 'take', 'away', 'right', 'vote', 'take', 'away', 'real', 'way', 'change', 'better', 'true', 'incentive', 'political', 'figure', 'real', 'reform', 'know', 'wont', 'help', 'hurt', 'ballot', 'box', 'much', 'mistreatment', 'abuse', 'goes', 'prison', 'helping', 'worst', 'society', 'prison', 'exactly', 'socialist', 'system', 'would', 'evolve', 'corruption', 'always', 'find', 'way', 'coarse', 'simply', 'one', 'specific', 'point', 'multifaceted', 'set', 'extend', 'far', 'beyond', 'prison', 'original', 'point', 'still']"
"['interested', 'republican', 'job', 'hired']"
"['think', 'dont', 'care', 'true', 'justice', 'broken', 'system', 'inside', 'system', 'believe', 'behind', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['incarceration', 'shown', 'took', 'voting']"
"['political', 'world']"
"['seen', 'used', 'scare', 'public', 'public', 'lied', 'us', 'example', 'scream', 'cannot', 'let', 'return', 'true', 'statistics', 'show', 'recidivism', 'among', 'especially', 'spent', 'time', 'behind', 'around']"
"['period', 'time', 'political']"
"['see', 'country', 'getting', 'ran', 'ground']"
"['maturity', 'mostly', 'becoming', 'aware', 'clue', 'adolescent']"
"['youth', 'really', 'political', 'point', 'view', 'though', 'strong', 'supporter', 'lock', 'thirty', 'five', 'born', 'whole', 'value', 'system']"
"['abortion', 'gay', 'gun', 'control', 'government', 'also', 'know', 'corruption', 'corrupt', 'police', 'inmate', 'thats', 'say']"
"['much', 'informed', 'foreign', 'policy']"
"['incarceration', 'thought', 'democratic', 'democratic', 'current', 'term', 'favorable', 'thats', 'kind', 'wish', 'associated', 'party', 'interested', 'personal', 'needs']"
"['vote', 'could', 'make', 'difference']"
"['free', 'didnt', 'much', 'think', 'like', 'criminal', 'justice', 'homeless', 'border', 'protection', 'see', 'really', 'matter']"
"['since', 'see', 'republican', 'party', 'curb', 'ongoing', 'incarceration', 'trend', 'help', 'reduce', 'future', 'trend', 'needless', 'incarceration', 'frivolous']"
"['vote', 'office', 'community', 'vote', 'run', 'country']"
"['yes', 'due', 'fact', 'political', 'corrupt', 'ways', 'running', 'country']"
"['cause', 'dont', 'agree']"
"['yes', 'begun', 'look', 'reform']"
[]
"['making', 'self', 'country']"
"['understand', 'important', 'vote', 'would', 'mean', 'look', 'kind', 'president', 'running', 'country']"
"['shown', 'political', 'interested', 'individual']"
[]
"['yes', 'want', 'change']"
"['never', 'thought', 'prison']"
"['prison', 'see', 'different', 'light', 'see', 'injustice', 'done', 'throughout', 'justice', 'system', 'time', 'structured', 'fairly', 'child', 'much', 'time', 'time', 'manslaughter', 'murder']"
"['political', 'view', 'know', 'try', 'stay', 'informed', 'watch', 'done']"
"['though', 'become', 'political', 'circus', 'say', 'perform', 'office']"
"['yes', 'didnt', 'care', 'since', 'prison', 'learned', 'lot', 'understand', 'vote', 'also', 'old', 'got']"
[]
"['made', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'much', 'policy', 'every', 'person', 'matter']"
"['much', 'aware']"
"['prison', 'get', 'see', 'society', 'different', 'way', 'good', 'see', 'everything', 'different', 'manner']"
[]
"['aware', 'systematical', 'country', 'facing', 'separation', 'dividing', 'great', 'nation', 'political', 'fighting', 'common', 'interest', 'always', 'lie', 'replace', 'wrong', 'mind', 'nation', 'stand', 'majority', 'poor']"
"['wasnt', 'thinking', 'bout', 'none', 'political', 'world', 'cause', 'didnt', 'understand', 'important']"
"['use', 'always', 'coming', 'prison', 'see', 'hard', 'work', 'struggling', 'always', 'make', 'everything', 'complicated']"
"['well', 'came', 'year', 'old', 'boy', 'year', 'old', 'man', 'brink', 'release']"
"['never', 'almost', 'received', 'death', 'penalty', 'opinion', 'capital', 'punishment', 'went']"
"['ran', 'political', 'grinder']"
"['become', 'aware', 'hate', 'since']"
"['locked', 'interest', 'politics']"
"['th', 'grade', 'education', 'didnt', 'know', 'nothing', 'politics', 'prison', 'know', 'good', 'deal', 'politics']"
"['aint', 'period', 'still', 'question', 'love', 'much', 'straightforward', 'genocide']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
['identify']
"['much', 'open', 'tolerant', 'see', 'con', 'man', 'smoke', 'screen', 'politics', 'thats', 'afraid', 'voter', 'see', 'con', 'man']"
"['political', 'understand', 'taxation', 'without', 'representation', 'pay', 'tax', 'even', 'local', 'tax', 'shown', 'like', 'dont', 'get', 'vote', 'whether', 'want', 'pass', 'tax', 'build', 'new', 'jail', 'improve', 'tax', 'soft']"
"['sense', 'forties', 'said', 'lot', 'aware', 'world', 'become', 'dont', 'change', 'downfall']"
"['time', 'really', 'study', 'politics', 'found', 'nearly', 'lie', 'get', 'vote', 'ever', 'promise', 'also', 'many', 'government', 'think', 'law', 'accountable', 'suppose', 'work', 'even', 'president', 'united', 'everyone', 'know', 'president', 'thats', 'office', 'works', 'rich', 'powerful']"
[]
"['informed', 'less']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['around', 'opinion', 'lived', 'environment', 'long', 'engrained', 'nature', 'matter', 'hard', 'fought']"
"['old', 'learned', 'grown', 'many', 'ways']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'therefore', 'political', 'concept', 'family', 'environment', 'made', 'transition', 'male', 'man', 'learned', 'individualize', 'process', 'study', 'show', 'thyself', 'approval']"
"['watch', 'news', 'daily', 'keep', 'everything', 'going', 'world', 'didnt', 'watch', 'news']"
"['going', 'around', 'world']"
"['yes', 'experienced', 'legal', 'system', 'know', 'really', 'hand', 'experience']"
"['dont', 'come', 'back']"
"['know', 'certain', 'political', 'poor']"
['different']
[]
"['time', 'study', 'plus', 'think']"
"['used', 'believe', 'state', 'system', 'know', 'thats', 'true']"
['redder']
"['dramatically', 'since', 'able', 'learn', 'real', 'face', 'majority', 'prison', 'population', 'understanding', 'base', 'political', 'trying', 'reform', 'prison', 'system']"
"['make', 'different']"
"['realize', 'important', 'vote']"
"['never', 'chance', 'lost', 'interest', 'cause', 'felon']"
"['care', 'politics', 'due', 'state', 'country', 'despite', 'family', 'works', 'federal', 'government', 'state']"
"['see', 'used', 'think', 'black', 'white', 'time', 'think', 'political', 'make', 'lot', 'way']"
"['well', 'consider', 'progressive', 'however', 'tempered', 'liberal', 'crime', 'reform', 'seeing', 'reality', 'day', 'day', 'unrealistic']"
"['see', 'poverty', 'level']"
"['want', 'someone', 'office', 'really', 'best', 'interest', 'heart']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'aware', 'position', 'life', 'far', 'mean', 'society', 'important', 'society', 'far', 'making', 'change']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'growing', 'inside', 'made', 'form']"
"['trump', 'lot', 'incorrect', 'wall', 'stuff', 'get', 'stuff', 'done', 'course', 'speak']"
"['becoming', 'conservative']"
"['bipartisanship', 'acting', 'favor', 'party', 'favor', 'represent']"
['yes']
['free']
"['want', 'vote', 'dont', 'stand', 'whats', 'right', 'world', 'continue', 'head', 'wrong', 'direction', 'much', 'society', 'us', 'us', 'look', 'child', 'killing', 'get', 'caught', 'stealing', 'selling', 'time', 'thats', 'right', 'need', 'rehabilitation', 'help', 'learning', 'lo', 'live', 'normal']"
"['political', 'situation', 'wanting', 'socialist', 'government', 'type', 'life']"
"['filled', 'drug', 'use', 'criminal', 'activity', 'authority', 'selfish', 'many', 'believe', 'deserve', 'prison', 'hate', 'grow', 'sooner', 'likely', 'die', 'prison', 'see', 'world', 'different', 'respect', 'understand', 'lot']"
"['aware', 'political']"
['really']
"['didnt', 'pay', 'attention']"
['future']
"['yes', 'use', 'swing', 'toward', 'democratic', 'side', 'clearly', 'see', 'lot', 'go', 'morals', 'believe', 'republican', 'party', 'conscience', 'god', 'built', 'upon', 'morals', 'found', 'yet', 'seem', 'lost', 'way']"
"['truly', 'never', 'thought', 'much', 'although', 'arent', 'supposed', 'compare', 'amongst', 'need', 'sort', 'standard', 'consistency', 'parole', 'board', 'become', 'second', 'jury', 'look', 'around', 'count', 'made', 'parole', 'leave']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'going', 'judicial', 'system', 'force', 'dig', 'history', 'see', 'worked', 'political', 'party', 'made', 'rehabilitative', 'go']"
"['aware', 'importance', 'politics', 'effect', 'everything', 'everyone', 'thus', 'making', 'want', 'say', 'direct', 'effect', 'quality', 'life', 'thats', 'lived']"
"['went', 'casual', 'observer', 'depth', 'research', 'coming', 'conclusion', 'independent', 'moderate', 'believe', 'balance', 'compromise', 'agree', 'conservative', 'platform', 'fiscally', 'responsible', 'lowering', 'keeping', 'government', 'everyday', 'life', 'however', 'disagree', 'conservative', 'ideology', 'need', 'hand', 'necessarily', 'hand', 'somewhat', 'disagree', 'economical', 'concept', 'trickle', 'effect', 'repeatedly', 'shown', 'good', 'go', 'stock', 'board', 'much', 'everyday', 'working', 'class', 'average', 'joe', 'agree', 'liberal', 'platform', 'government', 'correcting', 'society', 'much', 'leftist', 'platform', 'tearing', 'government', 'starting', 'completely', 'since', 'political', 'even', 'identity', 'liberal', 'democrat']"
"['yes', 'become']"
"['incarceration', 'never', 'thought', 'politics']"
"['see', 'really']"
"['yes', 'much', 'since', 'political', 'party']"
"['thing', 'best', 'fallow', 'closely', 'effect']"
['good']
"['learned', 'known', 'wasnt', 'really', 'like']"
"['look', 'different']"
"['sober', 'care']"
"['party', 'would', 'choose']"
"['yes', 'always']"
"['incarceration', 'didnt', 'political']"
['unbalanced']
"['since', 'seventeen', 'year', 'old', 'girl', 'opinion', 'didnt', 'care', 'follow', 'politics', 'look', 'happening', 'hope', 'see', 'change', 'help', 'one', 'upon', 'release']"
"['person', 'number', 'vote', 'make', 'society', 'better', 'place']"
"['given', 'much', 'attention', 'past']"
"['maybe', 'age', 'see', 'lot', 'propaganda', 'exposed']"
"['almost', 'none', 'left', 'best', 'interest', 'feel', 'grand', 'utopian', 'dream', 'like', 'affirmative', 'action', 'welfare', 'rekindle', 'old', 'racial', 'divide', 'us', 'left', 'attention', 'misleading', 'like', 'racism', 'thwart', 'common', 'sense', 'stem', 'flow', 'illegal', 'southern', 'border', 'terrorist', 'profit', 'driving', 'thriving', 'yearly', 'addiction', 'death', 'dismal', 'economy', 'left', 'right', 'track', 'little', 'extreme', 'comes', 'environment', 'believe', 'ecological', 'differ', 'achieve', 'less', 'culture', 'consumption', 'demand', 'demand', 'indifferent', 'environment', 'thats', 'couple', 'trillion', 'worth', 'plastic']"
"['knowledge', 'whats', 'going']"
"['time', 'examine', 'system', 'cant', 'vote', 'cant', 'voice', 'opinion', 'felon', 'got', 'right', 'change', 'society', 'forced', 'live', 'abide', 'made', 'men', 'worse']"
"['well', 'time', 'really', 'get', 'understand', 'streets', 'balderdash']"
"['young', 'never', 'chance', 'vote', 'weigh', 'matter', 'aware', 'politics', 'follow', 'slightly', 'used']"
['star']
"['used', 'strictly', 'democratic', 'republican', 'party', 'economy']"
"['fact', 'try']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['use', 'care', 'politics', 'voting', 'incarnation', 'believe', 'make', 'difference', 'community', 'concern']"
"['yes', 'see', 'lot', 'stuff', 'effects']"
"['well', 'locked', 'ten', 'lot', 'since', 'free', 'world', 'would', 'love', 'able', 'vote', 'make', 'vote', 'count']"
"['master', 'sever']"
"['anyone', 'ahead', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'plan', 'supporting', 'could', 'mean', 'freedom']"
"['would', 'dont', 'like']"
['actually']
"['care', 'get', 'go']"
"['came', 'prison', 'didnt']"
"['learned', 'government', 'supposed']"
[]
"['want', 'incarcerate', 'rehabilitate', 'dont', 'want', 'release', 'anyone', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['longer', 'believe', 'judicial', 'system', 'especially', 'dont', 'believe', 'correctional', 'system', 'feel', 'equal', 'politically', 'one', 'outdated']"
"['didnt', 'think', 'vote', 'matter', 'know', 'better']"
"['use', 'care']"
"['one', 'made', 'mistake', 'life', 'bad', 'made', 'mistake', 'make', 'right', 'right', 'wrong', 'said']"
"['respect', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'trump', 'glorious', 'leader', 'importance', 'conservative', 'family', 'bearing', 'fate', 'nation', 'despite', 'opposition', 'politically', 'incorrect', 'feel', 'core', 'resonate', 'mine', 'feel', 'going', 'look', 'back', 'realize', 'trump', 'central', 'campaign', 'also', 'believe', 'conservative', 'majority', 'activist', 'supreme', 'court', 'service', 'continually', 'pay', 'throughout', 'lifetime']"
"['since', 'corrupt', 'yes', 'needs', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['since', 'locked', 'education', 'informed', 'life', 'voting', 'incarnation', 'gave', 'different', 'society']"
"['look', 'life', 'really', 'person', 'taken', 'selfish', 'state', 'mind', 'come', 'understand', 'needs', 'met', 'one', 'person', 'one', 'race', 'one', 'city', 'one', 'state', 'one', 'country', 'making', 'world', 'place', 'facing', 'reality']"
"['society', 'didnt', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'news', 'since', 'attention', 'direction', 'society', 'going', 'said', 'interest', 'let', 'voice', 'said']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'voting', 'criminal', 'justice', 'personal', 'see', 'community', 'never', 'watched', 'news', 'read', 'newspaper', 'going', 'world', 'got', 'locked', 'become', 'activist', 'reform', 'time', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'drastically', 'part', 'solution', 'part', 'problem', 'help', 'become', 'aware', 'prison', 'help', 'society']"
"['view', 'politics', 'felon', 'see', 'lack', 'understanding', 'care']"
"['never', 'concern', 'sent', 'house', 'never', 'astronomical', 'amount', 'revenue', 'wasted', 'expense', 'flawed', 'system', 'time', 'went', 'try', 'change', 'broken', 'met', 'extreme', 'resistance', 'fix', 'anything', 'also', 'given', 'time', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'political', 'choose', 'listen', 'read']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'thought', 'world', 'welfare', 'awesome', 'want', 'someone', 'role', 'human']"
"['taught', 'become', 'book', 'writer']"
"['cause', 'young', 'got', 'locked', 'didnt', 'view', 'cause', 'didnt', 'matter', 'see', 'going', 'country', 'want', 'say', 'dont', 'vote', 'try', 'change', 'shouldnt', 'right', 'complain', 'happening', 'willing', 'help', 'change']"
"['raised', 'republican', 'family', 'side', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'made', 'aware', 'need', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment']"
"['seen', 'much', 'hate', 'chaos', 'confusion', 'warped', 'sense', 'thinking', 'twisted']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['came', 'prison', 'age', 'realize', 'society', 'works', 'everyone', 'equal', 'everyone', 'responsibility']"
"['believe', 'length', 'unjust', 'one', 'equally', 'another', 'also', 'keep']"
"['didnt', 'really', 'political', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'know', 'need', 'vote', 'way', 'hold', 'accountable', 'turn', 'protect', 'civil', 'fact', 'civil', 'watch', 'dogs']"
"['change', 'feel', 'wrong', 'view']"
"['used', 'lot', 'faith', 'government', 'ability', 'solve', 'common', 'man', 'see', 'talking', 'actually']"
"['yes', 'ways', 'president', 'good']"
['shouldnt']
"['doesnt', 'matter', 'democratic', 'republican', 'much', 'fighting', 'going', 'need', 'stop', 'fighting', 'whether', 'democratic', 'republican', 'tearing', 'apart']"
"['time', 'actually', 'listen', 'trying', 'generally', 'tell', 'serious']"
"['time', 'lighter', 'repeat']"
"['see', 'harm', 'president', 'try', 'work', 'together', 'one', 'nation', 'instead', 'make', 'investigation', 'take', 'money', 'time']"
"['went', 'democratic', 'really', 'supporting', 'neither', 'neither', 'help']"
"['care', 'know']"
"['dont', 'know', 'really', 'political', 'towards', 'mixed', 'confused', 'really', 'educated', 'smart', 'enough', 'know', 'speaking', 'political']"
"['yes', 'good', 'cant', 'vote']"
"['uneducated', 'political', 'abundance', 'informed', 'necessary', 'criteria', 'form']"
"['dont', 'understand', 'problem']"
['prison']
"['think', 'angry', 'ex', 'con', 'grudge']"
"['time', 'watch', 'keep', 'political', 'agenda']"
"['year', 'thats', 'good', 'amount', 'time', 'yes', 'political']"
"['kept', 'news', 'political']"
[]
"['yes', 'didnt', 'nothing', 'politics', 'period', 'educated']"
['care']
[]
"['think', 'differently', 'fairness', 'well']"
['look']
"['used', 'think', 'judicial', 'system', 'fair', 'got', 'locked']"
"['yes', 'years', 'fighting', 'unjust', 'conviction', 'knowing', 'authority', 'change', 'law', 'fast', 'track', 'justice']"
"['learn', 'politics']"
['full']
"['watched', 'news', 'attention', 'actually']"
[]
"['star', 'pop']"
"['need', 'justice']"
"['id', 'elaborate']"
"['country', 'trouble']"
"['previously', 'care', 'less', 'politics', 'concerning', 'incarceration', 'never', 'would', 'example', 'eat', 'lucky', 'even', 'get', 'water', 'sometimes', 'even', 'grievance', 'always', 'deny', 'parole', 'time', 'give', 'seriousness', 'crime', 'death', 'involved', 'considered', 'judge', 'court', 'double', 'especially', 'inmate', 'stayed', 'trouble', 'also', 'state', 'ever', 'pay', 'left', 'believe', 'ar', 'al', 'two', 'legislation', 'start', 'hearing', 'even', 'hearing', 'lot', 'never', 'honest', 'job', 'hustle', 'get', 'like', 'special', 'food', 'several', 'cant', 'like', 'monthly', 'chicken', 'pizza', 'would', 'make', 'sense', 'pay', 'small', 'amount']"
"['yes', 'thought', 'alright', 'got', 'debt', 'president', 'yes', 'bad', 'thing', 'believe', 'good', 'bad', 'maybe', 'wife', 'go', 'back', 'forth', 'much', 'need', 'become', 'country', 'split', 'need', 'work', 'together', 'fight', 'either', 'become', 'country', 'less', 'dirty', 'person', 'look', 'closet', 'afterwards', 'sure', 'sorry', 'closet']"
"['political', 'want', 'money', 'power']"
"['never', 'one', 'way', 'another']"
"['little', 'attention', 'news', 'idea', 'going', 'politically', 'world', 'wide']"
['republican']
['help']
"['interested', 'political']"
"['well', 'slice', 'system', 'label', 'like', 'target', 'back', 'thats', 'always', 'seen', 'badly', 'like', 'human', 'take', 'top', 'make', 'new', 'effect', 'yeah', 'political', 'take', 'turn', 'change']"
"['forgotten', 'comes', 'time', 'time']"
"['deserve', 'built', 'majority', 'country', 'number', 'yet', 'dont', 'count']"
"['wish', 'could']"
"['prison', 'slow', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'government', 'put', 'motion', 'country']"
"['prison', 'vote', 'help', 'keep', 'prison', 'help']"
"['got', 'think', 'plan', 'future', 'impact', 'political']"
"['never', 'really', 'interested', 'government', 'came', 'prison']"
"['used', 'care']"
"['mostly', 'response', 'election', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'politics', 'obscure', 'distant', 'part', 'life', 'occasion', 'really', 'ever', 'president', 'since', 'incarceration', 'learned', 'law', 'us', 'used', 'want', 'expatriate', 'come', 'stark', 'realization', 'change', 'comes', 'inside', 'dont', 'abandon', 'address', 'cant', 'leave', 'country', 'need', 'work', 'create', 'better', 'future', 'inside', 'yes', 'follow', 'politics', 'learn', 'strive', 'get', 'involved', 'however']"
['time']
"['believe', 'important', 'going', 'world']"
"['ways', 'feel', 'certain', 'punishment', 'clearly', 'validate', 'prison', 'sentence', 'moral', 'compass', 'wont', 'matter', 'ten', 'think', 'take', 'away', 'much', 'care', 'country', 'headed', 'currently', 'dont', 'get', 'say', 'care', 'give', 'person', 'motivation', 'much', 'better', 'current', 'environment', 'motivation', 'benefit', 'actual', 'sustained', 'change', 'work', 'sit', 'around', 'day', 'minimal', 'mental', 'health', 'concern', 'kind', 'change', 'wont', 'happen', 'long', 'talk', 'nothing']"
"['better', 'outlook']"
"['understand', 'person', 'see', 'educated', 'child', 'wasnt', 'education', 'received', 'corrupted', 'miseducation', 'thinking', 'persuaded', 'make', 'bad', 'decision']"
"['made', 'choice', 'commit', 'crime', 'crime', 'dont', 'depict', 'flesh', 'control', 'destiny', 'period', 'time', 'cost', 'life', 'wisdom', 'government', 'label', 'take']"
"['see', 'inside', 'politics', 'control']"
"['see', 'politics']"
"['used', 'didnt', 'care']"
['care']
['cant']
[]
"['neither', 'party', 'unified', 'bring', 'us', 'together']"
"['dont', 'direct', 'answer']"
"['yes', 'different', 'behind']"
"['used', 'care']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'reform']"
"['see', 'big', 'picture']"
"['incarceration', 'forced', 'look', 'lot', 'different', 'instance', 'current', 'president', 'popular', 'despite', 'economy', 'well']"
"['made', 'aware', 'abroad']"
"['felon', 'crime', 'see', 'society', 'us', 'even', 'though', 'doesnt', 'mean', 'arent', 'real', 'real', 'need', 'especially', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'think', 'needs', 'reform', 'time']"
"['never', 'interested', 'government', 'got', 'two', 'see', 'important', 'vote', 'right', 'office']"
"['top', 'cause', 'dont', 'care', 'modern', 'day', 'group', 'communist']"
['didnt']
"['interested', 'politics', 'informed', 'different']"
"['prison', 'republican', 'republican', 'frown', 'democrat', 'homosexual']"
"['used', 'think', 'nothing', 'politics', 'care', 'around']"
"['dont', 'us']"
"['juvenile', 'naturally']"
"['blessed', 'know', 'god']"
"['dont', 'like', 'president']"
"['become', 'political', 'aware']"
['none']
"['part', 'making', 'better', 'country', 'personal', 'reflection', 'reform', 'one', 'realize']"
"['informed', 'social', 'spectrum', 'extra', 'time', 'given', 'time', 'absorb', 'better', 'discernment', 'absent', 'social', 'media']"
"['political', 'since']"
"['dont', 'know', 'situation', 'see', 'could', 'care', 'less']"
"['one', 'concerned', 'locked', 'like', 'drug', 'murder']"
"['ignorant', 'made', 'male', 'offender', 'female', 'confined', 'serve', 'longer', 'harder', 'us', 'make', 'parole', 'plus', 'dont', 'get', 'skill', 'training', 'go', 'get', 'dollar', 'hour', 'back', 'working', 'cashier', 'store', 'lucky']"
"['way', 'democratic', 'party', 'reason', 'would', 'vote', 'republican']"
"['voice', 'important', 'know', 'responsibility', 'make', 'sure']"
"['look', 'totally', 'positive', 'way']"
"['compassion', 'justice', 'system', 'feel', 'country', 'going', 'ago']"
"['ever', 'one', 'voting', 'keep', 'level', 'sex', 'locked', 'promise', 'write', 'completely', 'untrue', 'responsible', 'prosecute', 'according', 'involvement']"
"['view', 'prison', 'system', 'system', 'suppose', 'help', 'make', 'better', 'person', 'vote', 'care', 'us', 'lot', 'time', 'little', 'lock', 'us', 'make', 'us', 'work', 'free', 'make', 'money', 'us', 'get', 'training', 'education', 'life', 'matter', 'much', 'time', 'got']"
['know']
"['sex', 'offender', 'feel', 'feel', 'state', 'look', 'lot']"
"['always', 'say', 'race', 'thing', 'come', 'black', 'president']"
"['learned', 'original', 'political', 'detail', 'realize', 'wrong']"
"['nineteen', 'got', 'locked', 'never', 'understood', 'politics', 'like', 'today', 'dont', 'know', 'everything', 'knowledge', 'understanding', 'much', 'better']"
['news']
[]
"['take', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'busy', 'didnt', 'care']"
['forgotten']
"['pay', 'attention', 'political']"
"['vote', 'may', 'one']"
"['become', 'much', 'cynical', 'separate']"
"['concerned', 'world', 'going', 'voice']"
"['aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'also', 'need', 'facilitate', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment', 'better', 'chance', 'becoming', 'productive', 'society', 'get', 'also', 'better', 'appreciate', 'social', 'safety', 'reform', 'since', 'locked']"
"['rehabilitation', 'us']"
"['get', 'television', 'something', 'theyre']"
"['previous', 'incarceration', 'didnt', 'really', 'consider', 'government', 'something', 'control', 'lost', 'right', 'vote', 'really', 'control', 'government', 'sometimes', 'feel', 'like', 'opinion', 'weight', 'whatsoever', 'therefor', 'usually', 'keep', 'survey', 'time', 'someone', 'besides', 'interest', 'hearing', 'anything', 'say', 'politics']"
"['incarceration', 'see', 'unjust', 'justice', 'system', 'really']"
"['see', 'prison', 'system', 'busted', 'state', 'us', 'nothing', 'rehabilitate', 'cant', 'rehabilitate']"
"['feel', 'like', 'become', 'informed', 'free', 'world', 'wouldnt', 'time', 'worry']"
"['wish', 'chance', 'help', 'create', 'better', 'way']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['yes', 'see', 'sides']"
"['yes', 'see', 'rehabilitation', 'need', 'prison', 'even', 'go', 'prison']"
"['didnt', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'always', 'working']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['since', 'lean', 'towards', 'prison', 'reform', 'trying', 'find', 'ways', 'better', 'release']"
['cant']
"['used', 'believe', 'solid', 'reason', 'vote', 'mostly', 'seen', 'political', 'ulterior', 'sad', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'understand', 'cant', 'make', 'everyone', 'whats', 'important', 'cause']"
"['since', 'notice', 'way', 'thinking', 'many', 'describe', 'entitlement', 'merely', 'want', 'blame', 'government', 'hold', 'accountable']"
['somewhat']
['unsure']
"['wow', 'see', 'although', 'still', 'try', 'listen', 'trust', 'like', 'trump', 'dad', 'doesnt', 'mind', 'completely', 'made', 'opinion']"
"['opposed', 'execution', 'came', 'also', 'believe', 'need', 'line']"
"['yah', 'see', 'bigger', 'picture']"
"['vote', 'could', 'help']"
"['judicial', 'system', 'poison']"
"['didnt', 'really', 'care']"
[]
"['made', 'better', 'men']"
"['never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['good', 'place', 'id', 'rather', 'family', 'sooner', 'get', 'better']"
['none']
"['yes', 'prison', 'federal', 'state', 'said', 'use', 'yet', 'fed', 'bottom', 'barrel', 'housing', 'poor', 'hardly', 'works', 'force', 'proper', 'paper', 'work', 'paint', 'rust', 'fungus', 'show', 'money', 'hurt', 'medical', 'attempt', 'sue', 'paper', 'work', 'works']"
"['spent', 'time', 'following', 'politics', 'country']"
"['used', 'didnt', 'care', 'see', 'effect', 'everyone']"
"['never', 'really', 'anything', 'politics', 'seen', 'democratic', 'party', 'president', 'time', 'took', 'office', 'democratic', 'party', 'done', 'everything', 'power', 'undermine', 'never', 'stick', 'foot', 'mouth', 'times', 'force', 'place', 'protect', 'office', 'democratic', 'party', 'beginning', 'found', 'necessary', 'fight', 'beginning', 'never']"
"['much', 'aware', 'financial', 'personal', 'legal', 'war', 'crime', 'destructive', 'tough', 'crime', 'full', 'third', 'population', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex', 'many', 'possible', 'monetary', 'compensation']"
"['watched', 'news', 'informed']"
['interest']
"['understanding', 'since', 'imprisonment']"
"['living', 'different', 'real']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'vote', 'change', 'way', 'ran']"
"['want', 'better']"
"['look', 'politician', 'might', 'help', 'prison']"
"['become', 'aware', 'race', 'white', 'debt', 'march', 'nation']"
"['since', 'political', 'lot', 'realize', 'offense', 'opportunity', 'reform', 'get', 'systematic', 'governing', 'private', 'businessman', 'profiting']"
"['feel', 'justice', 'system', 'unfair']"
"['accused', 'crime', 'put', 'prison', 'really', 'thinking', 'real', 'someone', 'gains', 'office', 'could', 'cause', 'thing', 'mind', 'money', 'public', 'make', 'new', 'way', 'look', 'good', 'public', 'eye', 'let', 'unscrupulous', 'district', 'look', 'pad', 'conviction', 'rate', 'look', 'good', 'election', 'make', 'life', 'better', 'expense']"
"['hefty', 'ugh']"
"['severe', 'corruption', 'needs', 'removed', 'county', 'tax', 'collection', 'official', 'law']"
"['knowledge', 'wisdom', 'lot', 'definitely', 'lot']"
"['yes', 'know', 'government', 'right']"
"['dont', 'care', 'little', 'person']"
"['understand', 'meeting', 'new']"
"['political', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'id', 'never', 'established', 'constitutional', 'applied', 'ethnic']"
"['finally', 'see', 'jail', 'prison', 'getting', 'different', 'due', 'race', 'background', 'natural']"
"['whole', 'justice', 'system', 'prisoner', 'reformation', 'desperate', 'need', 'reformation', 'say', 'least']"
"['interest', 'prison', 'reform', 'rehabilitation']"
"['see', 'sides', 'sides']"
"['yes', 'see', 'abroad', 'society']"
['informed']
"['learned', 'politics', 'prison', 'actually', 'paying', 'attention', 'never', 'knowledge', 'taking', 'college', 'classes', 'becoming', 'educated', 'prison']"
"['one', 'really', 'get', 'done']"
"['since', 'political', 'fact', 'unaware', 'much', 'matter']"
"['meant', 'answer']"
"['realize', 'voice', 'responsibility', 'involved', 'know', 'going', 'community', 'beyond', 'part', 'make', 'place', 'fellow', 'man']"
"['never', 'one']"
[]
"['become', 'lesser', 'concern', 'since', 'right', 'vote', 'taken', 'away', 'understand', 'voice', 'know', 'matter', 'world']"
['voting']
"['prior', 'didnt', 'political', 'know', 'anything', 'politics', 'living', 'life', 'came', 'really', 'self', 'absorbed', 'older', 'world', 'whole', 'relevant']"
"['seen', 'put', 'together', 'sex', 'able', 'parole', 'guide', 'ass', 'drug']"
"['know', 'important']"
"['since', 'white', 'nationalist', 'due', 'prison']"
"['think', 'older', 'drug', 'get', 'correct', 'treatment']"
"['paying', 'attention']"
['yes']
"['learned', 'due', 'reading']"
"['well', 'used', 'democrat', 'republican']"
"['made', 'realize', 'government', 'doesnt', 'care', 'us', 'money']"
"['chance', 'vote', 'would', 'try', 'help', 'change', 'longer', 'term']"
['truth']
"['option', 'also']"
"['aware', 'want', 'voice']"
"['seen', 'nothing', 'injustice', 'corruption']"
"['didnt', 'really', 'understand', 'political', 'view', 'afterwards', 'familiar']"
"['learned', 'justice', 'system', 'crooked', 'really', 'dont', 'care', 'go', 'threw', 'feel', 'though', 'falsely', 'giving', 'us', 'better', 'help', 'us', 'return', 'world']"
"['always', 'democratic', 'party', 'wise', 'days', 'ever']"
['yes']
"['political', 'strongly', 'believe', 'everyone', 'right', 'freedom', 'speech', 'matter', 'come', 'current', 'life']"
"['want', 'administration', 'prison', 'reform', 'got', 'allegedly', 'beating', 'man', 'year', 'old', 'daughter', 'never', 'trouble']"
"['wiser', 'humble', 'closer', 'god']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'really', 'think', 'important', 'vote', 'even', 'care', 'going', 'government', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'watch', 'goes', 'know', 'citizen', 'important', 'let', 'want', 'known', 'charge']"
"['actually', 'get', 'sit', 'see', 'world', 'really']"
"['aware', 'need', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['strong', 'bulling']"
"['would', 'agreed', 'would']"
['care']
"['five', 'turned', 'old', 'didnt', 'care', 'voting', 'wrapped', 'dull', 'pain', 'childhood', 'trauma', 'worry', 'political', 'though', 'prison', 'realize', 'greatly', 'affected', 'political', 'climate', 'spent', 'legal', 'assistant', 'certification', 'law', 'standing', 'civil', 'men', 'like', 'case', 'th', 'circuit', 'court', 'number', 'use', 'unpaid', 'prisoner', 'labor', 'depending', 'source', 'pay', 'labor', 'also', 'lawsuit', 'prison', 'mail', 'policy', 'violative', 'equivalent', 'st', 'amendment', 'came', 'prison', 'wouldnt', 'even', 'known', 'another', 'civil']"
"['looking', 'ferry', 'gun']"
"['understand', 'vote', 'thats', 'like', 'bad', 'condition', 'allow', 'vote', 'since', 'know', 'also']"
"['time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['want', 'office', 'know', 'trying', 'make', 'help', 'get', 'prison', 'help', 'find', 'work', 'housing', 'start', 'new', 'life']"
"['since', 'able', 'keep', 'news', 'look', 'believe', 'bigger', 'picture', 'possible', 'choose', 'represent', 'us']"
"['privilege', 'walk', 'grounds', 'also', 'walk', 'still', 'safety']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'directly']"
['continue']
"['look', 'better']"
"['hustler', 'go', 'make', 'way', 'way', 'racial', 'big', 'prime', 'era', 'serving', 'yes', 'convinced']"
['locked']
"['realize', 'certain', 'unfair', 'need', 'tobe']"
"['use', 'think', 'keeping', 'assault', 'constitutional', 'right', 'bear', 'arms', 'protect', 'threat', 'really', 'hand', 'gun', 'sufficient', 'enough', 'hell', 'dont', 'need', 'assault', 'rifle', 'hunt', 'either', 'mass', 'shooting', 'come', 'legally', 'buy', 'acquire', 'proper', 'obtain', 'assault', 'rifle', 'commit', 'heinous']"
"['look', 'president', 'today', 'self']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['policy', 'government', 'affect', 'point', 'view', 'system']"
"['make', 'difference']"
"['registered', 'raised', 'catholic', 'town', 'full', 'staunch', 'formed', 'political', 'bias', 'young', 'age', 'however', 'prison', 'seen', 'republican', 'government', 'take', 'turns']"
"['different', 'mind', 'frame']"
"['president', 'trump', 'taken', 'president', 'see', 'lot', 'disrespect', 'left', 'towards', 'day', 'one', 'regardless', 'president', 'respect', 'rather', 'agree']"
['yes']
[]
"['dont', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'feel']"
"['ill', 'go', 'rest', 'life', 'incarnation']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'trust', 'politician']"
['career']
"['study', 'history']"
"['watched', 'learned', 'presidency']"
"['see', 'bad', 'justice', 'system']"
['vote']
"['yes', 'look', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'different', 'justice']"
"['yes', 'absolutely', 'best', 'due', 'mature', 'outlook', 'life', 'keep', 'easily', 'persuaded', 'since', 'unnecessary', 'hate', 'towards', 'great', 'president', 'trump', 'done', 'superb', 'job', 'president', 'come', 'got', 'one', 'nation', 'country', 'support', 'respect', 'president', 'trump']"
"['wish', 'would', 'importance', 'voting']"
"['youth', 'given', 'opportunity', 'focus', 'entirely', 'upon', 'bettering', 'previous', 'formerly', 'lived', 'focus', 'less', 'political', 'unless', 'current', 'position']"
"['leaning', 'democrat', 'sympathize', 'republican']"
['yes']
"['used', 'care', 'much', 'going', 'politics', 'government', 'operating', 'since', 'learned', 'whats', 'wrong', 'society', 'today', 'lack', 'proper', 'ethical', 'treatment', 'humanity', 'greed']"
"['great', 'need', 'better', 'judicial', 'across', 'country', 'better']"
"['towards', 'less', 'government', 'control']"
"['love', 'country']"
['sure']
"['used', 'say', 'prison', 'second', 'chance', 'system', 'doesnt', 'forgive']"
"['made', 'mature', 'going', 'country', 'beyond']"
"['locked', 'immature', 'didnt', 'care', 'locked', 'grown', 'want', 'make', 'difference', 'goes', 'around', 'cant', 'anything', 'helpless', 'country']"
"['suppose', 'pay', 'attention', 'world', 'fact', 'got', 'interesting', 'trump', 'stuff', 'prison', 'focus', 'future', 'beyond', 'mention', 'future']"
"['see', 'new', 'perspective', 'literally', 'metaphorically']"
"['pass', 'dont', 'understand', 'repercussion', 'put', 'different', 'certain', 'affect', 'life', 'forever', 'law']"
"['since', 'giving', 'life', 'god', 'view', 'lot']"
"['longer', 'support', 'illegal', 'leniency', 'residency', 'status']"
"['poor', 'hard', 'end', 'generational', 'poverty', 'thus', 'reducing', 'generational', 'incarceration']"
"['certain', 'political', 'never', 'applied']"
['yes']
['daily']
"['change', 'actually', 'chance', 'sit', 'really', 'see', 'politics', 'much']"
['us']
"['world', 'black', 'white', 'prison', 'reform', 'since', 'believe', 'youve', 'done', 'time', 'need', 'full', 'member', 'society', 'interact', 'world', 'stage', 'nation', 'dying', 'slow', 'death']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'political']"
"['new', 'political']"
"['whole', 'lot', 'different', 'pattern']"
['se']
[]
"['never', 'attention', 'outside']"
"['know', 'side', 'world', 'free', 'lot', 'taken', 'away', 'us', 'made', 'bad', 'decision', 'put', 'dont', 'make', 'bad', 'person']"
"['need', 'voice']"
"['yes', 'grown', 'interested']"
"['chose', 'yes', 'gotten', 'wiser']"
['cant']
"['well', 'since', 'incarceration', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'political', 'ways', 'important']"
"['lot', 'one', 'sober', 'think', 'lot', 'think', 'differently', 'way', 'differently']"
['really']
"['well', 'see', 'everything', 'black', 'white', 'make', 'seem']"
"['paying', 'attention']"
['yes']
"['certain', 'garbage']"
"['made', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['came', 'prison', 'staunch', 'democrat', 'tolerant']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'indifferent', 'didnt', 'reason', 'care', 'care', 'deeply', 'personally']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['actually', 'care']"
"['yes', 'drug', 'offender', 'less', 'time', 'never', 'carried', 'violence', 'anyone', 'spent', 'life', 'cause', 'addiction']"
"['self', 'explanatory']"
"['one', 'care', 'thats', 'locked']"
['yes']
[]
"['far', 'concerned', 'society', 'well', 'prison']"
"['even', 'affected', 'place', 'complete', 'control']"
"['sit', 'watch']"
"['lime', 'one', 'sided']"
"['attitude', 'lot', 'way', 'carry', 'human', 'care', 'lot', 'dont', 'tolerate', 'lot', 'ignorance']"
"['aware', 'informed', 'political', 'want', 'active', 'reform', 'get']"
['care']
['family']
"['see', 'many']"
"['would', 'like', 'explain', 'life', 'situation', 'help']"
"['previous', 'democratic', 'party', 'since', 'convinced', 'political', 'process', 'us', 'nothing', 'complex', 'scheme', 'economical', 'military', 'agenda', 'white', 'slave']"
"['look', 'world']"
"['hand', 'view', 'corruption', 'money', 'like', 'unit', 'watched', 'black', 'begging', 'medical', 'assistance', 'watched', 'pain', 'medication', 'surgical', 'given', 'instead', 'legally', 'disabled', 'forced', 'work', 'medication', 'medical', 'care', 'withheld', 'attorney', 'back']"
"['want', 'vote', 'provide', 'rehabilitative', 'mentally', 'ill']"
[]
"['yes', 'know', 'matter', 'voice', 'responsibility', 'stand', 'future']"
"['think', 'country', 'gone']"
"['judicial', 'system']"
"['past', 'would', 'vote', 'democratic', 'set', 'back', 'listen', 'person', 'speaking', 'instead', 'house', 'party', 'cause', 'mind', 'day', 'really', 'house', 'every', 'self']"
"['since', 'incarceration', 'given', 'life']"
"['someone', 'formed', 'ill', 'informed', 'based', 'try', 'take', 'information', 'issue', 'whole']"
"['learned', 'count']"
"['become', 'involved', 'politics']"
"['mostly', 'aged', 'become', 'clear']"
"['never', 'taken', 'time', 'listen', 'going', 'around', 'last', 'time', 'well', 'hearing', 'concerning']"
"['nothing', 'prison']"
"['government', 'going', 'wrong', 'way']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'fact', 'id', 'related', 'anyone', 'political', 'money', 'id', 'got', 'long', 'sentence', 'yes', 'hire', 'judge', 'court']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'keep', 'news', 'trump', 'really', 'good', 'job']"
"['rich', 'get', 'justice', 'poor', 'go', 'prison', 'property']"
"['order', 'free', 'world', 'society', 'change', 'uprise', 'betterment', 'youth', 'final', 'future']"
"['guess', 'since', 'younger', 'really', 'could', 'careless', 'president', 'united', 'ran', 'office', 'prison', 'grown', 'see', 'future', 'even', 'next', 'generation', 'politics', 'would', 'change', 'better', 'worse']"
"['find', 'self', 'informed', 'political', 'purpose', 'yes']"
"['need', 'know', 'truth', 'hide', 'prison']"
"['use', 'support', 'democratic', 'party', 'much', 'split']"
"['didnt', 'politics']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'broken', 'justice', 'system']"
['aware']
['much']
['good']
[]
"['saw', 'man', 'get', 'prison', 'simple', 'possession', 'drug', 'paraphernalia', 'charge', 'stuck', 'attack', 'soon', 'laid', 'intake', 'bag', 'society', 'drug', 'addict', 'system', 'must', 'end']"
"['believe', 'person', 'visit', 'prison', 'united', 'least', 'spent', 'time', 'system', 'actually', 'know', 'go']"
[]
['used']
"['way', 'done']"
"['cause', 'choice']"
"['used', 'think']"
"['watching', 'political', 'understand', 'happening', 'government', 'well', 'going', 'country', 'economy']"
['yes']
"['would', 'never', 'vote', 'democratic', 'reason']"
"['didnt', 'listen', 'watch', 'politics', 'got', 'seeing', 'injustice', 'system', 'firsthand', 'made', 'want', 'learn', 'make']"
['free']
['interested']
"['made', 'lose', 'interest', 'hope', 'politics']"
"['see', 'really', 'political', 'behalf']"
"['raised', 'democrat', 'always', 'thought', 'black', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'strike', 'law', 'prison', 'litigation', 'reform', 'welfare', 'reform', 'entire', 'race']"
['somewhat']
"['done', 'good', 'deal', 'helping', 'see', 'good']"
"['considered', 'libertarian']"
"['turned', 'republican', 'due', 'racism']"
"['one', 'dont', 'matter', 'know', 'us', 'bull', 'crap', 'going', 'pay']"
"['gun', 'control']"
"['lost', 'everything', 'financially', 'time']"
[]
"['really', 'didnt', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'hear', 'see', 'free', 'though', 'made', 'money', 'control']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'voting']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['lot', 'time', 'sit', 'watch', 'news', 'get', 'better', 'understanding', 'whats', 'happening', 'world']"
"['educated', 'rely', 'say', 'look', 'rely', 'opinion']"
"['think', 'pay', 'attention', 'goes', 'political', 'class', 'directly', 'effects', 'family']"
"['could', 'vote', 'could', 'make', 'little', 'better']"
"['incarceration', 'didnt', 'care', 'political']"
['money']
['learning']
"['grown', 'understand', 'politics']"
"['world', 'evil']"
[]
"['see', 'corruption', 'actually']"
['way']
['social']
"['victim', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system', 'realize', 'importance', 'justice', 'reform', 'state']"
"['realize', 'charge', 'make', 'better', 'worse']"
['yes']
"['used', 'think', 'prison', 'could', 'vote', 'feel', 'lot', 'different']"
"['cant', 'see', 'question']"
"['answer', 'last', 'essay']"
"['want', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'better']"
"['yes', 'matter', 'race', 'believe', 'deserved', 'vote', 'life', 'ways', 'educated', 'life', 'cant', 'teach', 'said', 'feel', 'vote', 'point', 'important', 'one', 'may', 'different', 'life', 'may']"
"['really', 'sit', 'stop', 'long', 'enough', 'really', 'think', 'happening', 'around', 'world', 'god', 'sat', 'work', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'around', 'learned', 'whole', 'lot', 'thats', 'live', 'world', 'live', 'make', 'brokenness', 'determine', 'come']"
"['trump', 'taken', 'office', 'sense']"
"['feel', 'president', 'leading', 'us', 'toward', 'world', 'war']"
"['less', 'liberal']"
"['libertarian', 'anyway', 'greater', 'understanding', 'political', 'lens']"
"['realizing', 'vote', 'would', 'inspired', 'try', 'get', 'back', 'vote']"
['sure']
['see']
"['parole', 'board', 'keeping', 'us', 'away', 'family', 'court', 'parole', 'rolling', 'prison']"
['aware']
"['yes', 'want', 'someone', 'office', 'care', 'make', 'change', 'prison', 'reform', 'justice', 'system']"
"['convinced', 'republican', 'ways', 'better']"
"['yes', 'used', 'republican', 'since', 'trump', 'took', 'office']"
"['made', 'feel', 'like', 'left', 'without', 'voice', 'politics', 'formed', 'formed', 'world', 'us', 'live']"
['yep']
"['since', 'president', 'openly', 'reason', 'terrorist', 'openly', 'singles', 'black', 'going', 'start', 'something', 'going', 'destroy', 'majority', 'gas', 'small', 'especially', 'many', 'live', 'inside', 'think', 'night', 'sleeping', 'building', 'gas', 'connected', 'use', 'foreign', 'telling', 'nice', 'chunk', 'gas', 'us', 'thats', 'lot', 'burning', 'decide', 'start', 'saying']"
"['get', 'talk', 'like']"
"['yes', 'majority', 'president', 'since', 'presidential', 'division', 'society', 'made', 'normal', 'lie', 'play', 'blame', 'shift', 'game', 'operate', 'position', 'double', 'self', 'awareness', 'reason', 'simple', 'used', 'grown', 'become', 'wise', 'certain', 'automatically', 'added']"
"['become', 'liberal']"
"['hand', 'bench', 'brick', 'try', 'urgency']"
"['nobody', 'ever', 'anything']"
"['election', 'watched', 'media', 'tell', 'one', 'lie', 'another', 'watched', 'media', 'get', 'insane', 'passing', 'day', 'refuse', 'accept', 'lost', 'never', 'political', 'fact', 'could', 'told', 'difference', 'democratic', 'republican', 'far', 'tell', 'term', 'democratic', 'dangerous', 'mental', 'disorder']"
"['governing', 'addiction', 'drug', 'education', 'however', 'drug', 'thrown', 'prison', 'harder', 'time', 'getting', 'sex', 'offender']"
['human']
"['help', 'fight', 'crime']"
"['since', 'become', 'informed', 'concerned', 'direction', 'country', 'heading']"
"['came', 'prison', 'never', 'really', 'put', 'lot', 'effort', 'politics', 'time', 'really', 'see', 'work', 'understand', 'prison', 'industry', 'politics']"
"['big', 'political', 'person', 'free']"
['governor']
"['yes', 'see', 'running', 'country']"
"['criminal', 'could', 'always', 'lot', 'conservative', 'per', 'say']"
"['reason', 'feel', 'getting', 'harder', 'lockup']"
"['yes', 'think', 'hold', 'office', 'need', 'job']"
['havent']
"['much', 'us']"
"['want', 'able', 'vote', 'able', 'say']"
['care']
"['reading', 'lot', 'feel', 'like', 'whoever', 'create', 'help', 'us', 'debt', 'charge']"
"['want', 'voice', 'fairness', 'criminal']"
"['yes', 'subjected', 'prison', 'civil', 'didnt', 'think', 'prison', 'effects', 'prison', 'release']"
"['way', 'thinking']"
"['dont', 'known']"
"['wasnt', 'interested', 'politics', 'didnt', 'care', 'community', 'want', 'positive', 'productive', 'member', 'society', 'day', 'care', 'world', 'especially', 'country']"
"['government', 'clue', 'less', 'reform']"
"['watching', 'news']"
"['way', 'government']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'would', 'love', 'interest']"
"['educated', 'view']"
"['victim', 'corrupted', 'justice', 'system', 'realize', 'important', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'see', 'country']"
[]
"['little', 'aware']"
"['follow', 'political', 'since', 'however', 'feel', 'like', 'felon', 'say']"
"['never', 'many', 'needlessly', 'realize', 'much', 'racism', 'hatred', 'toward', 'little', 'know', 'much', 'human', 'taken', 'country']"
"['attention', 'going', 'never', 'really', 'much', 'felon', 'right', 'right']"
"['used', 'think', 'vote', 'wouldnt', 'matter', 'one', 'bit', 'rich', 'want', 'someone', 'office', 'matter', 'many', 'little', 'theyre', 'still', 'going', 'put', 'want', 'office', 'regardless', 'unjustly', 'mainly', 'opinion', 'want', 'express', 'ever', 'whole', 'entire', 'life', 'taken', 'twice', 'man', 'life', 'taking', 'lost', 'father', 'lost', 'nd', 'husband', 'massive', 'heart', 'attack', 'sleep', 'job', 'work', 'much', 'need', 'try', 'correct', 'life', 'need', 'say', 'family', 'person', 'may', 'may', 'voice', 'freedom', 'hopefully', 'soon', 'resourceful']"
"['used', 'interest', 'politics', 'mainly', 'see', 'half', 'belong', 'behind', 'way', 'effect', 'many', 'mine', 'many']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['learned', 'lower', 'class', 'chosen', 'live', 'way', 'reason', 'racial']"
"['think', 'president', 'trump', 'economic', 'growth', 'great', 'deal']"
"['never', 'know', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'matter', 'vote', 'tell', 'think', 'want', 'hear', 'presidential', 'race', 'lie', 'important', 'vote', 'actuality', 'little', 'last', 'election', 'received', 'popular', 'trump', 'electoral', 'college', 'trump', 'dont', 'tell', 'even', 'dont', 'come', 'stand', 'rain', 'freezing', 'weather', 'president', 'still', 'going']"
"['want', 'freedom']"
"['yes', 'like', 'expressed']"
"['situation', 'still', 'confused']"
"['would', 'like', 'help', 'find', 'better', 'way', 'help', 'stay']"
"['new', 'political']"
"['need', 'help', 'outside', 'source', 'state']"
"['care', 'aware', 'whats', 'going']"
"['never', 'much', 'politics', 'stuck', 'prison', 'dealing', 'parole', 'offender', 'nice', 'keep', 'trying', 'find', 'help', 'well', 'deserve', 'get', 'help', 'need', 'seen', 'far', 'dont', 'much', 'voice', 'comes', 'political', 'standpoint']"
[]
"['honest', 'prison', 'never', 'thought', 'political', 'effects', 'daily', 'life']"
"['prison', 'keep', 'giving', 'year', 'keep', 'get', 'money', 'tink', 'need', 'law', 'let', 'date', 'comes', 'give', 'year', 'keep', 'prison']"
"['want', 'apart', 'society']"
['attention']
"['attention', 'government', 'going', 'world', 'side']"
"['really', 'dont', 'matter', 'pick', 'ever', 'want', 'office']"
"['never', 'knew', 'revolving', 'door', 'know', 'parole', 'set', 'fail', 'system']"
"['given', 'opportunity', 'knowledge', 'civic', 'duty']"
"['one', 'day', 'get', 'bite']"
"['made', 'see', 'country']"
"['learned', 'different']"
"['president', 'parole', 'matter', 'back', 'ground']"
"['become', 'interested', 'feel', 'become', 'affected']"
"['feel', 'opinion', 'drug', 'considered', 'worst', 'sex']"
"['yes', 'open']"
['mad']
['matter']
"['yes', 'never', 'get', 'involved', 'election', 'fill', 'election', 'sheriff', 'would']"
"['exposed', 'true', 'nature', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'actually', 'platform', 'win', 'never', 'actually', 'upon', 'back', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex']"
"['well', 'didnt', 'use', 'care']"
['interest']
['change']
"['pay', 'attention']"
[]
"['really', 'get', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['seeing', 'real', 'damage', 'politics', 'country']"
"['yes', 'painfully', 'aware', 'impact', 'lack', 'effects', 'us']"
"['understand', 'use']"
"['lot', 'need', 'made', 'system', 'wont', 'even', 'listen', 'point', 'view', 'system', 'dont', 'know', 'whats', 'good', 'much', 'less', 'improve']"
"['seen', 'front', 'crooked']"
"['trump', 'didnt', 'care', 'watching', 'trump', 'everyone', 'needs', 'care', 'cause']"
['tuff']
"['see', 'lot', 'stuff', 'didnt', 'see']"
"['aware', 'much', 'politics', 'roll', 'life', 'individually', 'like', 'never']"
[]
[]
[]
"['mainly', 'simple', 'fact', 'actually', 'watching', 'news', 'distracted', 'work', 'paying', 'social', 'really', 'thankful', 'along', 'aware', 'political', 'country', 'also', 'aware', 'self', 'working', 'prison', 'actually', 'great', 'opportunity', 'done', 'right', 'right', 'would', 'guess', 'even', 'inmate', 'population', 'actually', 'getting', 'anything', 'another', 'full', 'potential', 'possible', 'course', 'want', 'truly', 'best']"
[]
"['incarceration', 'needs', 'closely']"
['pay']
"['would', 'like', 'someone', 'stand', 'right', 'think', 'person', 'unless', 'crime', 'murder', 'rape']"
"['didnt', 'keep', 'much', 'news', 'see', 'every', 'opinion', 'important', 'country', 'needs']"
"['kind', 'hate', 'country', 'drug', 'rather', 'give', 'us', 'actual', 'treatment', 'money', 'tax', 'income', 'doesnt', 'fix', 'anything', 'locked', 'away', 'petty', 'drug', 'crime', 'surrounded', 'worse', 'taught', 'made', 'new', 'drug', 'addiction', 'still', 'left', 'untreated']"
"['see', 'damage', 'nation']"
"['realizing', 'working', 'together', 'unit', 'get', 'accomplished', 'pace', 'power']"
"['like', 'need', 'help', 'prison']"
"['hard', 'time', 'power', 'right']"
"['since', 'lots', 'time', 'propaganda', 'discuss', 'like', 'indulge', 'time', 'law', 'library', 'know', 'would', 'never', 'plead', 'guilty', 'bully', 'us', 'undermine', 'us', 'us', 'lots', 'prison', 'time', 'make', 'conviction', 'rate', 'go']"
"['come', 'attention', 'care', 'money']"
"['face', 'ugly', 'fact', 'well', 'cost', 'financial', 'gain', 'take', 'precedence', 'whats', 'right', 'wrong', 'politics', 'shorter', 'definition', 'smoke']"
['science']
"['justice', 'reform']"
"['lot', 'aware']"
"['never', 'attention', 'tell', 'bad', 'country', 'danger']"
"['see', 'totally', 'sober', 'view', 'instead', 'high']"
['world']
"['never', 'yes']"
"['tired', 'seeing', 'country', 'way']"
['yes']
[]
"['way', 'system', 'ran']"
"['yes', 'naive', 'incarceration', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['yes', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'must', 'change', 'better', 'business', 'designed', 'remove', 'without', 'voice', 'use']"
"['republican', 'since', 'see', 'divisive', 'republican', 'party', 'party']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'need', 'reform', 'prison', 'rehabilitation', 'advantage']"
"['well', 'general', 'pretty', 'consistent', 'specific', 'largely']"
[]
"['used', 'totally', 'democratic', 'thinking', 'three', 'plus', 'incarceration', 'middle', 'like', 'republican']"
[]
"['yes', 'absolutely', 'never', 'political', 'prior', 'conviction', 'multiple', 'life', 'life', 'political', 'fighting', 'system', 'behalf', 'unjust']"
"['well', 'locked', 'focus', 'politics', 'jail']"
"['well', 'get', 'told', 'happen', 'arent', 'said', 'like', 'really', 'time', 'dont', 'stand']"
"['yes', 'due']"
"['shouldnt', 'double', 'jeopardy', 'taken', 'care', 'ago', 'county', 'needs', 'pay', 'jail', 'courthouse', 'illegal', 'civil', 'attorney', 'teach', 'county', 'lesson', 'currently', 'media', 'posting', 'social', 'media', 'support']"
['yes']
['sure']
['se']
"['yes', 'get']"
"['yes', 'vote', 'since']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['injustice', 'done', 'inside']"
"['yeah', 'always', 'get', 'end', 'stick', 'like', 'saying', 'goes', 'hill', 'hill']"
"['yes', 'got', 'black', 'guy']"
"['feel', 'like', 'important', 'part', 'country']"
"['well', 'yes', 'used', 'think', 'trump', 'good', 'president', 'reading', 'newspaper', 'think', 'office']"
"['well', 'open', 'involved', 'news', 'days', 'think', 'got', 'say', 'matter', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'got', 'poss', 'firearm', 'charge', 'fault', 'walking', 'store', 'bread', 'neighborhood', 'get']"
"['become', 'far', 'less', 'trusting', 'establishment', 'seeing', 'truly', 'broken', 'corrupt', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'comes', 'someone', 'used', 'immense', 'faith', 'entire', 'system', 'worked', 'politics']"
[]
"['know', 'educated']"
['socialist']
['way']
"['um', 'see']"
"['seeing', 'hearing', 'two', 'different', 'live', 'tell', 'easy']"
"['corruption', 'violence', 'amongst', 'much', 'reform', 'much', 'education']"
"['seeing', 'everything', 'thats', 'happening']"
['nope']
['better']
"['set', 'say']"
"['seeing', 'hand', 'system', 'affecting', 'society']"
['health']
"['pro', 'went', 'jail']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['way', 'news', 'president', 'take', 'favoritism', 'certain', 'party', 'whether', 'republican', 'democratic']"
"['jail', 'dont', 'thing', 'like', 'hear', 'watch', 'wouldnt', 'streets']"
"['feel', 'like']"
"['prison', 'waste', 'human', 'half', 'drug', 'given', 'chance', 'treatment']"
"['looking', 'news']"
"['involved', 'aware', 'time', 'read', 'view', 'information', 'concerning', 'politics', 'different', 'thought', 'process', 'time', 'involved', 'active']"
[]
"['get', 'different', 'view', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'ability', 'see', 'tax', 'lied', 'gain', 'wouldnt', 'werent', 'propaganda', 'fed', 'therefore', 'causing', 'make', 'allow', 'otherwise', 'wouldnt']"
"['jail', 'wasnt', 'informed', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'read', 'paper', 'much', 'possible', 'like', 'know', 'whats', 'going']"
"['well', 'since', 'number', 'dont', 'agree']"
['love']
"['become', 'aware', 'interested', 'since']"
"['think', 'concerning', 'counter', 'intuitive', 'ab', 'made', 'prison', 'mean', 'going', 'prison', 'getting', 'time', 'serious', 'turn', 'less', 'actual', 'time']"
"['see', 'different', 'view']"
"['longer', 'feel', 'live', 'dream', 'record', 'college', 'education', 'useless', 'future', 'employment', 'court', 'result', 'feel', 'like', 'must', 'try', 'find', 'peace', 'world', 'unable', 'prosper']"
['peace']
"['feel', 'everyone', 'right', 'vote', 'would', 'full', 'system', 'would', 'want', 'vote']"
"['need', 'care', 'reform']"
"['incarceration', 'many', 'rehabilitation', 'immigration', 'control', 'education', 'work', 'housing']"
[]
[]
"['prison', 'jail', 'apparent', 'mass', 'effect', 'one', 'state', 'plus', 'sad', 'send', 'away', 'got', 'hurt']"
"['eat', 'get', 'bigger', 'grow']"
"['well', 'want', 'know', 'change', 'judicial', 'system']"
"['thinking', 'voting', 'big', 'thing', 'system', 'need', 'experience', 'average', 'person', 'knowledge', 'power', 'experience', 'change']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'effect', 'part', 'wish', 'opinion']"
"['yes', 'want', 'important']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['made', 'want', 'vote']"
"['look', 'world']"
"['dont', 'give', 'us']"
"['open', 'correction', 'court', 'system', 'public', 'made', 'aware', 'unjust', 'system']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'need', 'support', 'protect']"
"['minor', 'got', 'locked', 'us', 'think', 'government', 'legal', 'system', 'help', 'serve', 'justice', 'help', 'keep', 'white', 'rich', 'safe', 'get', 'rid', 'white', 'poor', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['well', 'part', 'need', 'unite', 'one', 'leadership', 'needs', 'racial', 'bias', 'need', 'leadership']"
['many']
"['watching', 'news']"
"['political', 'would', 'say', 'grown', 'instead', 'see', 'streets', 'busy', 'read', 'news', 'paper', 'watch', 'news', 'aware', 'happening', 'world']"
"['good', 'good', 'regardless']"
"['used', 'think', 'like', 'younger', 'got', 'older', 'believe', 'came', 'maturity']"
"['many', 'without']"
"['trump', 'helping', 'stuff', 'talk']"
"['always', 'thought', 'republican', 'see', 'news', 'democrat']"
[]
"['us', 'petty']"
[]
"['much', 'bigger', 'appreciation', 'good', 'impact', 'direction', 'country', 'moving']"
"['money', 'stability', 'realize', 'lack', 'important', 'supporting', 'democrat']"
"['misconduct', 'local', 'judicial', 'system', 'manage', 'may', 'going', 'prison', 'rather', 'heinous', 'crime', 'commit', 'spent', 'days', 'jail', 'given', 'deal', 'get', 'deal', 'wave', 'days', 'spent', 'would', 'give', 'credit', 'time', 'whopping', 'days', 'wave', 'days', 'plead', 'guilty', 'something', 'didnt', 'year', 'person', 'ready', 'get', 'jail', 'almost', 'cost', 'told', 'plead', 'guilty', 'get', 'time', 'probation', 'attorney', 'said', 'court', 'room', 'deal', 'little', 'know', 'get', 'probation', 'going', 'attend', 'classes', 'among', 'class', 'somewhere', 'week', 'range', 'almost', 'year', 'expensive', 'cost', 'almost', 'week']"
"['seen', 'system', 'targeted', 'would', 'like', 'vote', 'political']"
"['didnt', 'pay', 'politics', 'attention']"
"['seem', 'legal', 'system', 'work', 'poor', 'certain']"
"['well', 'given', 'inside', 'view', 'judicial', 'jail', 'prison', 'worst', 'like', 'within', 'inadequate', 'medical', 'mental', 'health', 'treatment', 'officer', 'misconduct', 'inadequate', 'administrative', 'grievance', 'process', 'finally', 'exhausting', 'administrative', 'pursue', 'litigation', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'hear', 'truth', 'face', 'deception', 'call']"
"['dont', 'realize', 'taken', 'away', 'jail', 'make', 'realize']"
"['decide', 'applied', 'dont', 'understand', 'much']"
"['way', 'interest', 'politics']"
"['much', 'younger', 'use', 'say', 'give', 'crap', 'world', 'effect', 'use', 'say', 'stuff', 'like', 'dont', 'care', 'matter', 'still', 'animal', 'cage', 'world', 'go', 'hell', 'id', 'still', 'prison', 'still', 'wake', 'still', 'wake', 'way', 'breakfast', 'cold', 'lumpy', 'bag', 'lunch', 'every', 'day', 'would', 'never', 'change', 'even', 'world', 'fire', 'would', 'got', 'said', 'like', 'going', 'take', 'prison', 'going', 'put', 'weight', 'piles', 'back']"
"['yes', 'arent', 'fair', 'dont', 'agree', 'life', 'death', 'life']"
"['far', 'left', 'taken', 'moderate', 'left', 'wing', 'bullying', 'deceit', 'little', 'survey', 'tactic', 'box', 'increase', 'potential', 'remain', 'ignorant']"
['greatly']
"['many', 'innocent', 'justice', 'system']"
"['reason', 'gun', 'control']"
"['dont', 'matter', 'look', 'girl', 'got', 'mor', 'still', 'got', 'go', 'whit']"
"['trump', 'race', 'trading', 'tried', 'put', 'death', 'row', 'punk', 'ass', 'bitch']"
[]
"['yes', 'know', 'voting', 'new', 'props', 'get', 'let', 'sooner', 'petty']"
"['system', 'right']"
"['probation', 'parole', 'make', 'productive', 'member']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'supporting', 'cant', 'anything', 'wish', 'could', 'vote', 'jail']"
"['made', 'aware', 'much', 'struggle', 'socially']"
"['trump', 'worst', 'person', 'president', 'ever']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'kept', 'watching', 'news', 'daily', 'know', 'regarding']"
"['come', 'realization', 'important', 'society', 'let', 'voice', 'political', 'government']"
"['lot', 'happen', 'almost', 'everyday', 'law', 'sometimes', 'affect', 'wether', 'good', 'bad']"
"['came', 'republican', 'middle', 'class', 'ant', 'fell', 'stigma', 'thats', 'party', 'would', 'best', 'mind', 'longer', 'think', 'like', 'become', 'involved', 'dont', 'listen', 'one', 'sided', 'news', 'support', 'identify', 'make', 'beleave', 'move', 'next', 'generation', 'like']"
"['yes', 'lack', 'voting', 'feel', 'country', 'prior', 'made']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really']"
['justice']
"['yes', 'cause', 'like', 'dont', 'care']"
"['yes', 'found', 'unfair', 'justice', 'unequal', 'court', 'white']"
"['way', 'hinder', 'us']"
"['getting', 'older', 'expand', 'mind', 'comes', 'politics', 'realize', 'welfare', 'look', 'trump']"
"['locked', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'whats', 'goes', 'world', 'get', 'make', 'point']"
"['important', 'since']"
"['become', 'aware', 'concerned', 'aspect', 'incarceration', 'want', 'know', 'large', 'scale', 'fail', 'many', 'obviously', 'done', 'change', 'ever', 'present', 'revolving', 'door', 'effect', 'everyone', 'met', 'stuck', 'like']"
"['felon', 'since', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'could', 'vote', 'may', 'able', 'vote', 'one', 'day', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'politically']"
[]
"['better', 'man']"
['give']
"['hate', 'government']"
"['number', 'locked', 'house', 'trying', 'help', 'pay', 'little', 'mind', 'news']"
['news']
"['justice', 'system', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system', 'made', 'greedy', 'money', 'state', 'want', 'make', 'money', 'line']"
"['great', 'state', 'time', 'mile', 'going', 'school']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['political', 'change', 'thing', 'crime', 'never', 'given', 'life', 'disregard', 'allow', 'keep', 'public', 'assistance', 'democratic', 'hell', 'nancy', 'cancer', 'say', 'available', 'good', 'hourly', 'wage', 'homeless', 'cant', 'starve', 'us', 'us', 'back', 'reform', 'making', 'easier', 'long', 'term', 'get', 'second', 'chance', 'become', 'somewhat', 'said', 'god', 'bless']"
"['feel', 'politics', 'far', 'impact', 'freedom']"
"['yes', 'think', 'pertain', 'come', 'much', 'general', 'thing']"
"['see', 'hand', 'voice', 'silenced', 'belive', 'prison', 'population', 'would', 'equal', 'would', 'vote', 'towards', 'unholy', 'kingdom']"
"['yes', 'following', 'news', 'since', 'jail']"
"['paying', 'closer', 'attention', 'world']"
"['current', 'president', 'chamber', 'advocate', 'trump', 'icon']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'happening', 'country', 'state', 'federal', 'county', 'city', 'fix', 'country', 'still', 'much', 'racism', 'exist', 'country', 'government']"
"['repeated', 'offender', 'strike', 'self', 'defence', 'men', 'tried', 'rape', 'self', 'defence', 'law', 'victim', 'sexual', 'domestic', 'respond', 'society', 'much', 'different', 'one', 'victim', 'experienced', 'life', 'time', 'old']"
"['never', 'thus', 'never', 'concerned', 'political', 'rehabilitation', 'currently', 'jail', 'concern', 'political', 'awaken', 'party']"
['treatment']
"['yes', 'get', 'effect', 'us', 'well', 'family', 'understand', 'broken', 'law', 'however', 'broken', 'law', 'effect', 'rest', 'life', 'bettering', 'well', 'paying', 'weve', 'get', 'back', 'citizen', 'beautiful', 'country', 'pay', 'help', 'make', 'help', 'better', 'country', 'would', 'know', 'better', 'someone', 'bottom']"
"['use', 'care', 'political', 'drama', 'since', 'last', 'incarceration', 'taking', 'interest']"
"['sent', 'state', 'prison', 'local', 'ten', 'without', 'proper', 'ways', 'house', 'us', 'education', 'ways', 'get', 'personally', 'think', 'even', 'yrs', 'local', 'jail', 'right', 'make', 'education', 'local', 'prison', 'term', 'treatment', 'state', 'prison', 'us', 'gate', 'money', 'us', 'nothing']"
"['getting', 'better']"
['maybe']
"['get', 'see', 'hand', 'carelessness']"
"['like', 'said', 'made']"
"['never', 'use', 'care']"
"['wont', 'voice']"
"['didnt', 'think', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'major', 'process', 'hand', 'moderately', 'aware', 'see', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'power', 'loop', 'justify', 'shady', 'tactics', 'maximize', 'conviction', 'problem', 'led', 'early', 'actually', 'dangerous', 'paying', 'price', 'swelling', 'prison']"
"['si', 'para']"
"['well', 'feel', 'since', 'vote', 'wont', 'count', 'much']"
"['yes', 'politics', 'variety', 'politics', 'racial']"
"['hurt', 'stole', 'one', 'person', 'wronged', 'free']"
"['example', 'trump', 'went', 'office', 'stock', 'market', 'dow', 'went', 'everything', 'except', 'many', 'size', 'fit', 'inside', 'state', 'prison', 'money', 'become', 'slave', 'thing', 'reform', 'blind', 'justice']"
"['reason', 'based', 'fresno', 'county', 'want', 'make', 'valley', 'men', 'sick', 'tired', 'like', 'suspect', 'ex', 'made', 'poor', 'feel', 'lot', 'men', 'spot']"
"['get', 'different', 'side', 'story', 'overall', 'decision']"
"['many', 'happening', 'little', 'say', 'president', 'pay', 'attention', 'ower', 'thats', 'going', 'around', 'eye', 'sky', 'use', 'correctly']"
['yes']
"['dont', 'us', 'best', 'heart']"
"['well', 'thing', 'wrong']"
"['way', 'system', 'correctional', 'treat', 'inmate', 'poorly', 'un', 'shouldnt', 'aloud']"
"['need', 'gang', 'task']"
"['care', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['would', 'take', 'way', 'long', 'answer', 'dont', 'feel', 'like', 'answer', 'come', 'talk']"
"['wasnt', 'prison', 'racist', 'black', 'community', 'ironically', 'predominately', 'hung', 'become', 'left', 'wing', 'republican', 'trump', 'country', 'country', 'dont', 'migrate', 'make', 'change', 'demand', 'born', 'want', 'live', 'accept', 'stay', 'simple']"
"['yes', 'static', 'like', 'felon', 'voter']"
"['yes', 'point', 'judicial', 'system', 'corrupt', 'ways', 'especially', 'county', 'quick', 'judge', 'physical', 'evidence']"
"['change', 'thing', 'big', 'business', 'money']"
"['like', 'join', 'one', 'race', 'thats', 'political']"
"['attention', 'whats', 'politicly']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'part', 'system']"
"['younger', 'lean', 'towards', 'republican']"
[]
"['see', 'self', 'whats', 'going', 'behind', 'wall', 'prison', 'better', 'green', 'wall', 'cop', 'prison', 'gang']"
"['believe', 'prison', 'reform', 'happen', 'many', 'locked']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'much']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'much']"
"['educated', 'justice', 'system', 'court', 'took', 'inmate', 'side', 'understand', 'reality', 'lack', 'education', 'unjustice', 'balance', 'fall', 'upon', 'population', 'aware', 'conduct', 'stop', 'court', 'know', 'knowledge', 'power', 'likely', 'court']"
"['president', 'got']"
[]
"['better', 'light']"
"['see', 'crooked', 'place', 'really']"
"['justice', 'unfair']"
"['due', 'housing']"
"['well', 'dont', 'know', 'answer']"
"['time', 'see', 'hand', 'make', 'want', 'part', 'make']"
"['much', 'build']"
['sure']
[]
"['yes', 'justice']"
"['think', 'outdated', 'need', 'times']"
"['yes', 'immensely', 'ashamed', 'embarrassed', 'justice', 'system', 'police', 'department', 'public', 'office', 'downright', 'pathetic', 'unprofessional', 'conduct', 'disregard', 'constitutional', 'human', 'become', 'horrible', 'joke', 'thats', 'close', 'humorous']"
"['believe', 'needs', 'someone', 'doc', 'fair', 'example', 'offender', 'prison', 'fire', 'came', 'offender', 'prison', 'term', 'county', 'jail', 'fire', 'camp', 'even', 'make', 'sence', 'fire', 'camp', 'time', 'willing', 'learn', 'change', 'program', 'county', 'jail', 'prison', 'term']"
[]
['informed']
"['always', 'told', 'aloud', 'vote']"
"['seeing', 'amount', 'getting', 'serving', 'time', 'minor', 'parole', 'probation', 'made', 'question', 'whole', 'justice']"
"['need', 'vote', 'end']"
[]
"['awaken', 'understanding', 'judicial', 'system', 'cruel', 'unusual', 'punishment', 'locked', 'cell', 'hours', 'hour', 'crime', 'commit', 'reason', 'scare', 'tactics', 'used', 'da', 'interest', 'better', 'county', 'conviction', 'rate', 'know', 'criminal']"
"['feel', 'less', 'vote', 'feel', 'like', 'outcast']"
"['change', 'somewhat']"
['interested']
['way']
"['long', 'tie', 'older', 'suppose']"
"['yes', 'need', 'drug', 'jail', 'seen', 'many', 'needs']"
"['yes', 'political', 'since', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'relax', 'take', 'everything', 'thought']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'try', 'break', 'say', 'jail', 'like', 'everyone', 'helpless', 'treat', 'us', 'like', 'shelter', 'hurt']"
[]
"['least', 'slightly']"
['system']
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'believe', 'every', 'vote', 'count', 'citizen', 'united']"
"['ignorant', 'prior', 'incarceration']"
"['seem', 'care', 'much', 'public']"
['yes']
"['think', 'political', 'candidate', 'say', 'feel', 'safe', 'need', 'authentic', 'leadership', 'make', 'radical', 'prepare', 'navigate']"
"['outlook', 'life', 'always', 'much', 'politics', 'trump', 'person', 'politician', 'identify']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'used', 'believe', 'deserved', 'prison', 'know', 'result', 'government', 'system', 'poor', 'poverty', 'lack', 'social', 'moral', 'factor', 'become']"
"['yes', 'college', 'learnt', 'lot', 'help', 'develop', 'depth', 'look', 'life']"
"['yes', 'democrat', 'recently', 'read', 'joe', 'view', 'crime', 'really', 'hurt']"
"['yes', 'took', 'civic', 'course', 'second', 'chance', 'alliance', 'discovered', 'branch', 'government', 'work', 'favor', 'nonprofit']"
"['yes', 'much', 'politics', 'affect', 'life']"
[]
"['pay', 'attention', 'social']"
"['used', 'think', 'politics', 'play', 'big', 'role', 'see', 'watching', 'news', 'following', 'politics', 'change', 'different', 'voting', 'sessions', 'whether', 'state', 'federal', 'national']"
"['yes', 'learned', 'read', 'observe', 'study', 'politics', 'especially', 'process', 'impeachment']"
"['yes', 'felt', 'good', 'country', 'got', 'caught', 'system', 'see', 'work', 'much', 'different', 'days']"
"['yes', 'lot', 'tribal', 'affected', 'democratic', 'republican', 'party', 'discriminate', 'red', 'race', 'religion', 'comprehend', 'red', 'human', 'taught']"
[]
"['yes', 'accountable']"
"['yes', 'political', 'education', 'higher', 'moral', 'religious', 'belief', 'system', 'see', 'attached', 'page', 'addition', 'political', 'herein']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'trust', 'never', 'live', 'say', 'going', 'black', 'truly', 'obsolete']"
"['would', 'like', 'vote', 'yes', 'commit', 'stop']"
"['yes', 'time', 'listen', 'conduct', 'personal', 'analysis', 'whats', 'real', 'whats']"
"['yes', 'didnt', 'understand', 'different', 'still', 'barely', 'understand', 'constitution']"
"['yes', 'able', 'see', 'lot', 'deceptive', 'life', 'sides', 'today']"
"['long', 'story']"
"['yes', 'left', 'politics', 'alone', 'outside', 'lack', 'understanding', 'time', 'learn', 'great', 'deal', 'work', 'always', 'betterment']"
[]
"['yes', 'generally', 'based', 'experience', 'information', 'prison', 'experience', 'enlightening', 'revealing']"
"['yes', 'got', 'politically', 'uninvolved', 'realize', 'voting', 'right', 'upon', 'hinge']"
"['yes', 'learn', 'political', 'policy', 'procedure', 'power', 'dictate', 'world']"
"['yes', 'tend', 'highly', 'favor', 'stand']"
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'gave', 'idea', 'political', 'reformist', 'society', 'wronged', 'know', 'innocent', 'men', 'past']"
"['yes', 'time', 'see', 'read', 'pay', 'attention', 'didnt', 'streets', 'got', 'educated', 'political', 'world']"
[]
"['yes', 'listen', 'variety', 'news', 'talk', 'every', 'day', 'sometimes', 'day', 'dishonest', 'liberal', 'media', 'agenda', 'incredibly', 'unfair', 'filter', 'bias', 'order', 'learn', 'whole', 'story']"
"['yes', 'close', 'attention', 'government']"
"['yes', 'time', 'made', 'optimistic', 'open', 'new']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'corruption', 'self', 'serving', 'whole', 'new', 'light', 'see', 'clearly', 'blur']"
"['care', 'rich', 'poor']"
"['experience', 'treatment', 'doc', 'tell', 'done', 'help', 'inside', 'outside']"
[]
"['yes', 'liberal', 'democrat', 'liberal', 'republican']"
"['yes', 'learning', 'politics']"
[]
"['yes', 'mind', 'us', 'prison', 'need', 'parole', 'prison', 'soon']"
[]
"['catholic', 'cannot', 'support', 'penalty', 'reason', 'devout', 'faith']"
"['yes', 'want', 'become', 'involved', 'political']"
"['yes', 'ignorance', 'huge', 'issue', 'see', 'us', 'scum', 'earth', 'stay', 'behind', 'change', 'political']"
"['care', 'really', 'take', 'depth', 'look', 'uncover', 'done', 'said', 'view', 'actually', 'going', 'prison', 'system', 'huge', 'black', 'market']"
"['yes', 'trump', 'time', 'prison', 'would', 'help', 'get', 'mind', 'right']"
[]
"['yes', 'racial', 'bias', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'state']"
"['yes', 'got', 'locked', 'old', 'unlearned', 'know', 'better']"
"['feeling', 'need', 'voice', 'opinion', 'society', 'opinion', 'doesnt', 'matter']"
"['know', 'true', 'life', 'know', 'need', 'help', 'change', 'young', 'killing', 'self', 'need', 'help', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'justice', 'system']"
"['yes', 'think', 'reform', 'system']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'wish', 'taken', 'participation', 'local', 'election', 'came', 'state', 'well', 'sheriff']"
"['yes', 'conservative', 'liberal', 'since', 'entangled', 'legal', 'system', 'specific', 'believe', 'conservative', 'criminal', 'justice', 'misguided', 'also', 'representative', 'majority', 'especially', 'true']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'want', 'stand', 'little', 'man', 'speak', 'make', 'difference', 'system', 'truth', 'truth', 'hear', 'say']"
"['yes', 'longer', 'trust', 'government', 'function', 'low', 'level', 'consciousness', 'devoid', 'love', 'frank', 'see', 'framed', 'twice', 'prison', 'since', 'innocent', 'denial', 'see', 'attached', 'article', 'go']"
"['used', 'feel', 'havent', 'seen', 'proof', 'lately']"
"['nobody', 'care', 'even', 'person', 'everything', 'find', 'way', 'deal', 'sent', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'much', 'greater', 'knowledge', 'political', 'side', 'life', 'every', 'vote', 'right', 'wrong', 'affect', 'outcome', 'making', 'vote', 'important']"
"['yes', 'would', 'sit', 'back', 'assume', 'worked', 'since', 'incarceration', 'aware', 'dont', 'system', 'favor']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'stop', 'bring', 'law', 'see', 'hand', 'serving', 'time', 'doesnt', 'change', 'rehabilitation', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'towards', 'longer', 'learned', 'everyone', 'bad']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'shouldnt', 'happen', 'another', 'st', 'time', 'drug', 'offender', 'low', 'level', 'drug', 'crime', 'major', 'drug']"
[]
"['yes', 'incarcerate', 'become', 'fund', 'someone']"
[]
[]
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'thought', 'explaining', 'someone', 'abortion', 'gay', 'immigration', 'told', 'moderate', 'whatever']"
['yes']
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'well', 'crime', 'legislation']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'lot', 'go', 'prison', 'right', 'brought']"
"['yes', 'nobody', 'made']"
"['yes', 'look', 'past', 'current', 'situation', 'life', 'look', 'help', 'us', 'help', 'love', 'one', 'better', 'life']"
"['yes', 'never', 'pay', 'much', 'attention', 'current']"
"['child', 'came', 'prison', 'little', 'understanding', 'politics']"
"['dont', 'trust', 'one', 'need', 'full', 'cast', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'led', 'see', 'firsthand', 'judicial', 'political', 'taking', 'advantage', 'ignorance', 'represent', 'us', 'ways', 'receive', 'activism']"
"['always', 'aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'since', 'prison', 'seen', 'need', 'new']"
"['would', 'say', 'particular', 'political', 'drastically', 'due', 'current', 'prisoner', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'corrupt', 'country', 'put', 'microscope']"
[]
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'empty', 'made']"
"['yes', 'understanding', 'empathy', 'lot', 'respect', 'experienced', 'sides', 'view', 'lot', 'idea']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'two', 'point', 'box']"
[]
"['yes', 'state', 'prison', 'essentially', 'lying', 'resume', 'yrs', 'yrs', 'probation', 'offense', 'kind', 'army', 'meant', 'nothing']"
"['yes', 'substance', 'abuse']"
"['yes', 'ill', 'say', 'since', 'incarceration', 'learned', 'comes', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'paying', 'attention', 'news', 'gun', 'violence', 'scare']"
"['yes', 'new', 'trump']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'politics', 'wasnt', 'interest', 'household', 'since', 'seen', 'right', 'impact', 'economy', 'prison', 'never', 'attention']"
"['yes', 'go', 'go', 'trump', 'always', 'problem', 'reb']"
[]
[]
"['please', 'pull', 'think', 'information', 'find', 'interesting', 'even', 'looking', 'fox', 'news', 'mason', 'county', 'prison', 'currently', 'investigation']"
"['yes', 'realization', 'justice', 'system', 'flawed', 'constitutional']"
"['yes', 'political', 'world']"
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'new', 'light', 'never', 'saw', 'society']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'going', 'help', 'possible', 'choice']"
[]
"['yes', 'come', 'conservative', 'view', 'shown', 'liberal', 'however', 'comes', 'state', 'conservative', 'ideal', 'reason', 'provide', 'must', 'provide', 'one', 'whatever', 'personal', 'would', 'world']"
"['yes', 'make', 'pay', 'deserve', 'nd', 'chance', 'still', 'get', 'everything', 'even', 'trouble', 'due', 'felony', 'record']"
"['yes', 'female', 'like', 'trash', 'prison', 'population', 'doc', 'corrupt']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'end', 'unjust', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'seen', 'hand', 'importance', 'voting', 'municipal', 'state', 'level', 'affect', 'directly']"
[]
"['sure', 'havent', 'able', 'read', 'watch', 'anything', 'whats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'well', 'democrat']"
"['yes', 'made', 'live', 'view', 'politics', 'together']"
"['yes', 'voting', 'passing']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'given', 'opportunity', 'show', 'growth', 'change']"
[]
"['yes', 'seeing', 'many', 'times', 'state', 'election', 'really', 'think', 'vote', 'dont', 'matter', 'put', 'whoever', 'want', 'chair']"
"['yes', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'resolved']"
"['yes', 'like', 'space', 'taken', 'jail', 'would', 'let']"
"['open', 'blind', 'felt', 'higher']"
"['yes', 'see', 'long', 'physical', 'contact', 'harm', 'ie', 'child', 'possession', 'drug', 'wife', 'getting']"
"['yes', 'never', 'used', 'care', 'watch', 'world', 'unfold', 'us', 'change', 'completely']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'see', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'inside']"
"['become', 'much', 'engaged', 'much', 'reflective', 'contemplative', 'politics', 'profess', 'life', 'live', 'two']"
"['yes', 'impeachment', 'president', 'trump']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'prison', 'reform', 'mandatory', 'minimum', 'priority', 'many', 'one']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'firsthand', 'unrealistic', 'sometimes', 'even', 'bias', 'truly', 'change', 'country', 'best', 'need', 'get', 'feedback', 'help', 'living', 'want']"
['yes']
[]
"['yes', 'sector', 'society', 'really', 'never']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'yes', 'see', 'politics', 'us', 'dont', 'give', 'us', 'chance', 'ourself']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'liberal', 'freedom', 'choice']"
"['yes', 'years', 'old', 'caught', 'charge', 'unfamiliar', 'anything', 'basically', 'way', 'court', 'room', 'vulnerable', 'sold', 'ten', 'worth', 'gave', 'years', 'time', 'ever', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'look', 'different', 'perception', 'end', 'stuff', 'hope', 'becomes']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'dont', 'support', 'dont', 'support', 'law', 'dictate', 'serve', 'statutory']"
[]
[]
[]
"['wrongly', 'yet', 'somewhat', 'affected', 'overall', 'right', 'direction', 'right', 'smart', 'honest', 'right', 'help', 'lead', 'world', 'right', 'direction']"
[]
"['yes', 'hard', 'find', 'somebody', 'fix', 'broken', 'world', 'everybody', 'always', 'sell', 'going', 'get', 'nothing', 'personal', 'gain']"
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'greatly', 'hardly', 'help', 'hard', 'find', 'platform', 'use', 'unlawful', 'incarceration', 'new', 'could', 'forever', 'change', 'system']"
"['yes', 'since', 'prison', 'chance', 'really', 'understand', 'political', 'world', 'times', 'found', 'disgusting', 'group', 'race', 'two', 'always', 'going', 'left', 'big', 'scheme', 'sitting', 'supreme']"
[]
"['yes', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'mandatory', 'minimum', 'state']"
['yes']
"['still', 'independent', 'major', 'political', 'believe', 'right', 'vote', 'concerned']"
"['yes', 'growing', 'everyday', 'learning', 'different', 'effect']"
[]
[]
['matter']
"['see', 'politics', 'involved', 'multimillion', 'made', 'chose', 'wrong', 'path', 'dealt', 'bad', 'hand']"
"['attention', 'politics', 'since', 'become', 'interested', 'direction', 'government']"
"['everything', 'false', 'used', 'think', 'help', 'everybody', 'maybe', 'theyre', 'want', 'push', 'agenda', 'instance', 'take', 'virus', 'back', 'thought', 'everyone', 'die', 'mean', 'days', 'straight', 'would', 'deformed', 'government', 'cut', 'check', 'billion', 'praise', 'havent', 'since', 'smoking', 'every', 'day', 'receive', 'personal', 'spending', 'budget', 'although', 'start', 'good', 'none', 'come', 'clean', 'know', 'love', 'money', 'root', 'evil', 'personal', 'vote']"
"['see', 'country']"
['yes']
"['aware', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'negative', 'mandatory']"
['yes']
"['due', 'corruption', 'went', 'hand', 'court', 'system']"
"['nothing', 'never', 'done', 'problem', 'prison', 'nothing', 'help', 'build', 'mor', 'instead']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['shorter', 'drug', 'longer', 'gang', 'activity']"
"['informed', 'desire', 'involved', 'change']"
"['well', 'see', 'inner']"
[]
"['never', 'politics', 'streets', 'prison', 'trying', 'better', 'much', 'informed', 'politics', 'came', 'trying', 'better']"
"['yes', 'go', 'back', 'forth', 'whether', 'would', 'vote', 'democratic', 'republican', 'agree', 'sides', 'certain']"
"['better', 'understanding', 'rule', 'law', 'family', 'foundation', 'country', 'built', 'feel', 'power', 'vote', 'accomplished', 'come', 'together', 'political', 'nonexistence', 'didnt', 'matter', 'know', 'view', 'change', 'change', 'taught', 'morning', 'star', 'rise', 'new', 'journey', 'truth']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'designed', 'rehabilitate', 'instead', 'dand', 'streets', 'set', 'failure']"
"['life', 'see', 'side', 'blind']"
"['grown', 'times', 'set', 'ways', 'chang', 'information', 'available', 'time']"
"['really', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'politics', 'ex', 'military', 'pretty', 'much', 'always', 'thought', 'always', 'antimilitary', 'ever', 'anything', 'good', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'see', 'sides', 'good', 'bad', 'well', 'use', 'lately', 'try', 'change', 'us', 'socialist', 'government']"
"['punishment', 'serious', 'prison', 'long', 'time']"
"['prison', 'seeing', 'person', 'think']"
"['meet', 'mandatory', 'simple', 'society', 'begin', 'see', 'extreme', 'obvious', 'money', 'like', 'legal', 'human', 'government', 'suppose', 'faith', 'rehabilitation', 'best', 'interest', 'another', 'human', 'made', 'mistake', 'came', 'prison', 'getting', 'high', 'mutual', 'combat', 'fight', 'ended', 'coming', 'top', 'protecting', 'friend', 'intimately', 'judicial', 'system', 'made', 'hard', 'believe', 'running', 'county', 'state', 'country', 'us', 'question', 'best', 'interest']"
"['never', 'care', 'effects', 'freedom']"
"['watched', 'news']"
"['since', 'watching', 'news', 'racial', 'status', 'change']"
"['well', 'locked', 'dog', 'pound', 'see', 'took', 'like', 'news', 'political', 'wise', 'though', 'feel', 'like', 'say', 'made', 'mistake', 'prison', 'days', 'see', 'past', 'judge', 'easily', 'understand', 'time', 'right', 'judge', 'us', 'treat', 'us']"
"['well', 'prison', 'never', 'really', 'politics', 'country']"
"['though', 'prison', 'bad', 'know', 'resource', 'state', 'percent', 'hostage', 'past', 'fixed', 'time']"
"['time', 'watch', 'learn', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'belief', 'system', 'thought', 'stood', 'positive', 'reform', 'together', 'unified', 'country', 'looking', 'rehabilitation', 'locking', 'better', 'job', 'training', 'get', 'welfare', 'like', 'would', 'agree', 'happening', 'country', 'sad', 'seen', 'country', 'divided', 'cant', 'even', 'hear', 'busy', 'pushing', 'agenda', 'hate', 'trump', 'four', 'year', 'term', 'deal', 'instead', 'fighting', 'could', 'got', 'accomplished', 'country', 'trump', 'southern', 'border', 'secure', 'feel', 'safe', 'deficit', 'reduced', 'instead', 'spent', 'millions']"
"['bull', 'country', 'trump']"
"['really', 'didnt', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'locked', 'idea', 'whats', 'going', 'politics', 'would', 'like', 'vote', 'count']"
"['us', 'citizen', 'bad', 'vote', 'voice', 'matter']"
"['locked', 'didnt', 'even', 'pay', 'attention', 'care']"
"['become', 'aware', 'politics', 'interaction', 'recent']"
[]
"['see', 'importance', 'candidate', 'truly', 'stand']"
['incarceration']
"['dont', 'trust', 'days', 'hurt', 'nothing', 'always', 'power', 'next', 'man', 'never', 'money']"
"['seeing', 'many', 'poor', 'suffer', 'legal', 'process']"
"['felon', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'mostly', 'equal', 'much', 'comes', 'voting']"
"['well', 'watch', 'news', 'often', 'tune', 'made', 'political', 'personal']"
"['yea', 'cause', 'really', 'want', 'vote', 'cause', 'never', 'day', 'life']"
['yea']
"['respect', 'jail', 'system', 'rule', 'lost', 'respect', 'way', 'mislead', 'us', 'amount', 'time', 'keep', 'us', 'put', 'control', 'like', 'make', 'law', 'go', 'abuse', 'follow', 'us', 'like']"
"['sure', 'exactly']"
"['us', 'office', 'may', 'possibly']"
"['want', 'help', 'make', 'change']"
"['locked', 'away', 'notice', 'change']"
"['substitute', 'seeing', 'unfair', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'inside']"
"['yes', 'see', 'harder']"
"['time', 'around', 'made', 'view', 'differently']"
"['felon', 'young', 'age', 'barley', 'legal', 'vote', 'vote', 'right', 'taken', 'away', 'felon', 'still', 'citizen', 'country', 'feel', 'count', 'even', 'tho', 'black', 'man', 'feel', 'equal', 'skin', 'color', 'made', 'past', 'affect', 'future', 'bad', 'willing', 'change']"
"['see', 'happening', 'news', 'highest', 'discouraging']"
[]
"['since', 'time', 'think', 'everything', 'thats', 'going', 'wrong', 'world']"
[]
['race']
"['many', 'social', 'giving', 'incentive', 'work']"
['thin']
"['better', 'life', 'never', 'behind', 'whats', 'rite']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'freedom', 'many', 'actually', 'state', 'treat', 'like']"
"['believe', 'better', 'congress']"
"['think', 'political', 'wise', 'never', 'anyone', 'type', 'office', 'focus', 'business', 'everything', 'heart', 'office', 'dont', 'even', 'care', 'money', 'thats', 'days']"
"['cause', 'stuff', 'affecting', 'us']"
"['seeing', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'make', 'money', 'care', 'rehabilitation', 'human', 'outrageous', 'way', 'food', 'given', 'eat', 'many', 'suffer', 'live']"
[]
[]
['yea']
"['need', 'schooling', 'instead', 'lock', 'us', 'forget', 'exist']"
"['see', 'jail', 'prepare', 'leaving']"
[]
"['time', 'sit', 'watch', 'news', 'get']"
[]
['yes']
"['yes', 'sexual', 'get', 'less', 'time', 'drug', 'need', 'help']"
"['lot', 'without', 'fair', 'chance', 'explain', 'proper', 'proper']"
"['given', 'input', 'certain', 'could', 'express', 'opinion', 'effectively', 'however', 'mostly', 'suggest', 'new', 'presidential', 'vote', 'candidate', 'terminate', 'current', 'presidential', 'official', 'effectively', 'unconditionally']"
[]
[]
"['unfairly', 'black']"
"['become', 'republican']"
"['want', 'careful', 'vote', 'political', 'wont', 'favor', 'class', 'wealth', 'race']"
"['yes', 'many']"
"['want', 'keep', 'locked', 'get', 'around', 'thousand', 'year', 'person', 'locked', 'would', 'give', 'thousand', 'year', 'wouldnt', 'coming', 'back', 'fourth', 'jail', 'get', 'one', 'us', 'jail', 'person', 'year', 'working', 'everyday']"
"['order', 'form', 'perfect', 'union', 'establish', 'justice', 'domestic', 'better', 'characterize', 'us', 'us', 'us', 'us', 'express', 'god', 'give', 'right', 'vote', 'support', 'increase', 'develop', 'county', 'grow', 'inspiration', 'unity', 'oppressed', 'combining', 'grave', 'fir', 'common', 'defense', 'promote', 'general', 'secure', 'land', 'constitution', 'united']"
"['suck', 'time', 'make', 'change', 'self']"
"['whole', 'outlook', 'life', 'positive', 'life', 'dont', 'like', 'another', 'statistic']"
['worried']
"['way', 'politics', 'even']"
"['look', 'different']"
"['yes', 'question']"
['nope']
"['hurt', 'law', 'fighting', 'life']"
"['yes', 'time', 'look', 'political']"
"['two', 'know', 'better', 'party', 'white', 'house']"
"['belive', 'one']"
"['watching', 'news', 'really', 'gaining', 'sense', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'huge', 'motivation', 'anyone', 'want', 'better', 'country', 'living', 'especially', 'could', 'possibly', 'effect', 'personally', 'type', 'way', 'another']"
"['given', 'far', 'attention', 'regarding', 'nation', 'state', 'office', 'main', 'running', 'accomplish', 'anything', 'listen', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'pray', 'country', 'far', 'coming', 'like', 'never', 'work', 'betterment', 'nation', 'follow']"
"['unaware', 'justice', 'system', 'truly', 'running']"
"['informed', 'certain', 'never', 'attention']"
"['well', 'free', 'didnt', 'think', 'much', 'politics', 'got', 'register', 'rest', 'life', 'know', 'politics', 'going', 'effect', 'much']"
[]
"['much', 'attention', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'everyone', 'everybody', 'locked', 'nobody', 'help', 'reintegrate']"
"['right', 'vote', 'dont', 'care', 'arent', 'informed', 'correctly', 'going', 'country', 'cannot', 'vote', 'bother', 'voice']"
"['dont', 'judge', 'book', 'cover', 'give', 'chance', 'perfect']"
"['going', 'run', 'way', 'want']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'justice', 'system', 'failure', 'whole', 'help', 'feel', 'werent', 'worried', 'money', 'maybe', 'could', 'happen', 'prevent', 'work']"
"['feel', 'whole', 'president', 'thing', 'stupid', 'king', 'father', 'son', 'holy', 'ghost', 'unless', 'say', 'vote', 'president', 'exactly', 'mean', 'know', 'everyone', 'less', 'god', 'everyone', 'equal', 'one', 'person', 'unless', 'something', 'probably', 'care', 'thing', 'government', 'fact', 'try', 'better', 'world', 'yet', 'cycle', 'exactly']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'streets', 'always', 'clean', 'year', 'clear', 'head', 'believe', 'important', 'know', 'going', 'country']"
"['political', 'never', 'politics']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'dont', 'seem', 'fair']"
"['life', 'real', 'party']"
"['world', 'since', 'office']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'much', 'politics', 'dealt', 'incarceration', 'till', 'want', 'help', 'change', 'vote']"
"['never', 'keep', 'lie', 'get', 'position']"
"['yes', 'use', 'believe', 'much', 'interested', 'country']"
"['even', 'thou', 'still', 'country', 'ran', 'leader', 'would', 'count', 'even', 'thou', 'made', 'havent', 'got', 'brushed', 'table', 'cause', 'right', 'commit', 'fraud', 'crime']"
"['yes', 'need', 'active', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'really', 'didnt', 'care', 'went', 'world', 'didnt', 'say', 'today', 'think', 'matter']"
"['different', 'look', 'world', 'god', 'made', 'us']"
['right']
['really']
"['used', 'strictly', 'partisan', 'understand', 'important', 'work', 'across', 'aisle', 'taken', 'different', 'approach', 'listening', 'government', 'facing', 'country', 'registered', 'vote', 'democrat', 'think', 'independent']"
"['thing', 'effect']"
"['feel', 'given', 'right', 'vote']"
"['aware', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'actually', 'care']"
"['spent', 'time', 'sat', 'paying', 'attention', 'news', 'impeachment', 'came', 'strong', 'never', 'sat', 'long', 'enough', 'care', 'think']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'real', 'thing', 'us', 'believe', 'time', 'walk', 'prison', 'forgotten', 'instant', 'prison', 'number', 'become', 'nothing', 'inmate', 'matter', 'crime', 'sad']"
"['realize', 'unfair', 'justice', 'bad', 'us']"
"['stripped', 'long', 'dont', 'really', 'give', 'damn', 'politics', 'system', 'corrupt', 'many', 'dont', 'like', 'consider', 'justice', 'none', 'would', 'name', 'identity', 'false', 'media', 'care', 'much', 'politics', 'system', 'advocate', 'seen', 'strong', 'believer', 'self', 'state', 'politics']"
"['way', 'change', 'since']"
"['yes', 'many', 'smart', 'intelligent', 'would', 'like', 'chance', 'vote', 'even', 'give', 'opinion', 'political']"
"['think', 'system', 'flawed']"
"['murder', 'used', 'hand', 'gun', 'woman', 'part', 'group', 'reaching', 'within', 'stop', 'violence', 'group', 'active', 'member', 'years', 'different', 'end', 'know', 'kill', 'saved', 'lots', 'man', 'part', 'used', 'send', 'magazine', 'would', 'gun', 'years', 'gun', 'would', 'dye', 'depending', 'day', 'ask', 'sometimes', 'wish', 'would', 'let', 'kill', 'sometimes', 'actually', 'gone', 'since', 'prison', 'never', 'hit', 'beat', 'freer', 'ever', 'marriage', 'see', 'emotion', 'time', 'beat', 'never', 'gun', 'night', 'shot', 'wish', 'gun']"
"['mor', 'involved', 'whats']"
"['didnt', 'understand', 'educated', 'productive', 'society', 'end', 'prison', 'fathom', 'someone', 'like', 'square', 'going', 'prison', 'let', 'alone', 'getting', 'month', 'sentence', 'thought', 'little', 'deserved', 'incarceration', 'harsh', 'reality', 'living', 'life', 'behind']"
"['one', 'rape', 'child', 'molestation', 'murder', 'get', 'less', 'drug', 'enough', 'rehabilitation', 'da', 'even', 'higher', 'rank', 'quick', 'throw', 'away', 'key', 'rather', 'help', 'put', 'money', 'locking', 'away', 'instead', 'trying', 'invest', 'making', 'better', 'money', 'waisted', 'could', 'given', 'chance', 'find', 'help', 'rather', 'thrown', 'away', 'chance', 'could', 'put', 'take', 'streets', 'teach', 'outside', 'drug', 'dealing', 'street', 'waist', 'much', 'money', 'yet', 'none', 'next', 'generation', 'become', 'better']"
"['justice', 'system', 'coming', 'prison', 'meeting', 'truly', 'amazing']"
"['need', 'freedom']"
"['come', 'say', 'think', 'matter']"
[]
"['almost', 'four', 'given', 'get', 'better', 'education', 'take', 'world']"
"['well', 'inside', 'looking', 'see', 'economy', 'based', 'background', 'country', 'supposed', 'based', 'freedom', 'second', 'hard', 'majority', 'society', 'grant', 'could', 'simple', 'made', 'poor', 'choice', 'bad', 'day']"
"['yes', 'since', 'seen', 'hand', 'corrupted', 'system', 'us']"
"['made', 'want', 'vote', 'knowing', 'one', 'vote', 'make', 'difference', 'life', 'future']"
"['number', 'place', 'even', 'pay', 'medical', 'office', 'like', 'sick', 'call']"
"['really', 'would', 'lick', 'vote', 'believe']"
"['thought', 'werent', 'exactly', 'true']"
"['aware', 'going']"
"['feel', 'pay', 'attention', 'going']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'dont', 'care']"
"['much', 'aware', 'fact', 'society', 'become', 'punitive', 'police', 'state', 'rather', 'restorative', 'society']"
"['time', 'learn']"
"['yes', 'voting', 'would', 'really', 'make', 'impact', 'us']"
"['realize', 'low', 'priority', 'inside', 'dont', 'get', 'known', 'outside', 'make', 'prison', 'reform', 'need', 'experience', 'really', 'know']"
"['prison', 'didnt', 'care', 'realize', 'attitude', 'country']"
"['seeing', 'system', 'ran', 'lot', 'plus', 'tune', 'going']"
"['aware', 'since', 'sober']"
"['learned', 'want', 'better', 'world', 'made', 'better', 'want', 'vote', 'right', 'help', 'make', 'made']"
"['experience', 'prison', 'oblivious', 'core', 'prison', 'population', 'adequate', 'medical', 'care', 'prison', 'fair', 'coming', 'prison', 'prison', 'reserved', 'considered', 'clear', 'present', 'danger', 'society', 'however', 'sadly', 'personal', 'experience', 'far', 'many', 'drug', 'prison', 'system', 'foster', 'care', 'system', 'another', 'generation', 'men', 'sad', 'approach', 'taken', 'worked']"
['answer']
[]
"['guess', 'informed', 'certain', 'follow']"
"['system', 'seeing', 'close', 'acting', 'concerning', 'trump']"
"['question', 'prosper', 'help', 'country', 'best', 'country', 'willing', 'sacrifice', 'greater', 'good']"
"['watching', 'news', 'impeachment', 'treating', 'dont', 'care', 'self']"
"['aware', 'world']"
"['want', 'right', 'change']"
"['take', 'making', 'voice', 'count', 'serious', 'came', 'prison', 'young', 'think', 'mature', 'life', 'want', 'make', 'life', 'better', 'formy']"
['nope']
['important']
"['need', 'someone', 'office']"
"['taught', 'important', 'office']"
"['much', 'get', 'get']"
['yes']
[]
"['think', 'get', 'good', 'time', 'chance']"
"['attention', 'politics']"
"['prison', 'different', 'outlook', 'like', 'racial', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
['yes']
"['know', 'like', 'locked', 'everything', 'mind', 'world']"
"['feel', 'strongly', 'president']"
"['gun', 'feel', 'like', 'kill', 'giving', 'right', 'like', 'giving', 'dope', 'addict']"
"['learned', 'little']"
"['care', 'really', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['voice', 'matter', 'concern', 'following']"
"['didnt', 'one']"
"['system', 'change', 'remains']"
"['watching', 'news', 'locked', 'see', 'stuff', 'dont', 'agree', 'like', 'world', 'impeachment', 'trump', 'dont', 'like', 'way', 'working', 'didnt', 'like', 'going', 'didnt', 'vote']"
"['feel', 'like', 'tell', 'us', 'one', 'thing']"
"['amount', 'time', 'spent', 'number', 'due', 'gun', 'violence', 'major']"
"['political', 'view', 'mainly', 'entire', 'perception', 'perspective', 'citizen', 'must', 'focus', 'certain', 'might', 'care', 'one', 'men', 'want', 'return', 'prison', 'regress', 'crime', 'order', 'survive']"
"['despite', 'limit', 'post', 'conviction', 'found', 'becoming', 'liberal']"
"['give', 'second', 'chance', 'never']"
"['society', 'time', 'still', 'keep', 'ways', 'world', 'order', 'form', 'valid', 'political', 'belief']"
[]
"['new', 'always', 'make', 'brake', 'sentence']"
"['well', 'know', 'little', 'bit', 'works']"
"['keep', 'getting']"
"['feel', 'locked', 'long', 'money', 'trying', 'help', 'someone']"
"['needs', 'change', 'favor', 'poor']"
"['united', 'faced', 'multitude', 'united', 'divided', 'ever', 'causing', 'lose', 'sight', 'real', 'government', 'supporting', 'way', 'used', 'lot', 'discussion', 'mental', 'health', 'crises', 'one', 'root', 'issue', 'lit', 'easier', 'justify', 'reason', 'think', 'something', 'real', 'reason', 'race', 'injustice', 'another', 'main', 'issue', 'dont', 'think', 'color', 'skin', 'experienced', 'sort', 'injustice', 'life', 'judge', 'color', 'skin', 'content', 'character', 'believe', 'racial', 'discrimination', 'fall', 'system', 'used', 'many', 'avoid', 'real', 'cause', 'heart', 'issue', 'law', 'enforcement', 'comes', 'neighborhood', 'return', 'arrest', 'warrant', 'neighborhood', 'predominantly']"
"['election', 'trump', 'political', 'view', 'extremely']"
"['becoming', 'political', 'social', 'become', 'freer', 'thinker']"
"['feel', 'important', 'vote', 'right', 'person_ùä']"
['nope']
"['thought', 'fair', 'helping', 'pay', 'return', 'know', 'government', 'someone', 'political', 'office', 'automatically', 'criminal', 'greater', 'potential', 'harm', 'ever']"
['interested']
['opinion']
"['time', 'think']"
[]
"['used', 'belive', 'ideal', 'political', 'party', 'ever', 'since', 'trump', 'took', 'office', 'seen', 'really', 'trying', 'improve', 'united', 'whether', 'try', 'inflict', 'us', 'want', 'feel', 'safe', 'truthfully', 'even', 'though', 'honestly', 'say', 'thanks', 'republican', 'trump', 'want', 'take', 'freedom', 'appreciate', 'united']"
['vote']
"['well', 'time', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['never', 'used', 'care', 'politics']"
"['believe', 'needs', 'real', 'serious', 'look', 'prison', 'reform', 'handle', 'reform', 'reintegrate', 'society', 'engage', 'real', 'social', 'restorative', 'justice', 'part', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'use', 'parole', 'set', 'political', 'system', 'within', 'country', 'seen', 'hand', 'corruption', 'within', 'need', 'better', 'way']"
"['old', 'need', 'get', 'new']"
['learned']
"['understand', 'voting', 'see']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'republican', 'suppose', 'according', 'constitutional', 'law', 'front', 'mistreat', 'another', 'country']"
"['prior', 'prison', 'jail', 'see', 'easy', 'one', 'simplist', 'yes', 'hold', 'accountable', 'trial', 'let', 'get', 'stop', 'profit']"
"['time', 'think', 'learn', 'stuff']"
"['political', 'get', 'upclose', 'look', 'mess', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'understand', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'also', 'free', 'time', 'scrutinize', 'closely']"
"['since', 'lock', 'see', 'go']"
"['prior', 'interested', 'age', 'young', 'age', 'able', 'vote', 'something', 'interest', 'different', 'person', 'state', 'country', 'much']"
['answer']
"['rather', 'say']"
"['seen', 'good', 'side', 'bad', 'bad', 'side', 'good', 'every']"
"['see', 'wasteful', 'cruel', 'system']"
"['cause', 'brake', 'whatever', 'nothing', 'brake', 'law', 'go', 'prison']"
"['see', 'better']"
"['aware', 'older']"
"['whole', 'different', 'view', 'life', 'never', 'understood', 'justice', 'system', 'judges']"
"['came', 'prison', 'old', 'political', 'around', 'self', 'politics', 'decided', 'live', 'life', 'foremost']"
"['money', 'mater']"
"['put', 'self', 'around', 'usually', 'would', 'around', 'herd', 'different', 'mind']"
"['difficult', 'time', 'expanding', 'question']"
"['watch', 'news']"
"['person', 'time', 'gather', 'knowledge', 'pertaining', 'politics', 'learn', 'lot', 'see', 'lot', 'thus', 'change', 'time']"
"['tremendously', 'life', 'used', 'left', 'wing', 'feel', 'like', 'right', 'wing']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['think', 'politics', 'differently']"
"['seen', 'sides', 'justice', 'system', 'sad', 'working', 'government', 'prisoner', 'say', 'one', 'thing', 'another', 'word', 'substance']"
"['really', 'didnt', 'think', 'prison', 'population', 'high', 'outside', 'doesnt', 'let', 'see', 'see', 'problem', 'prison', 'population']"
"['used', 'however', 'really', 'made', 'stuff']"
"['yes', 'see', 'certain', 'seem', 'screw']"
"['see', 'nothing', 'year', 'time', 'everyone', 'nd']"
[]
"['view', 'need', 'help', 'sort', 'way', 'rich', 'get', 'crime']"
[]
['person']
"['thank', 'full']"
"['made', 'see', 'look', 'different', 'feel', 'like', 'listen', 'go', 'along', 'want', 'hear', 'think', 'unless', 'government', 'giving', 'something', 'nothing', 'good', 'want', 'fix', 'get', 'havent', 'hurt', 'see', 'system', 'fixed']"
"['believe', 'better', 'getting', 'much', 'time', 'crime', 'doesnt', 'make', 'sense']"
['since']
"['give', 'one', 'let', 'even', 'wrong', 'healing', 'begin', 'may', 'family', 'society', 'line', 'good', 'one', 'side', 'bad', 'start', 'power', 'us', 'power', 'lead', 'corruption', 'made']"
"['prior', 'like', 'many', 'prison', 'simply', 'rotten', 'didnt', 'know', 'hurt', 'often', 'far', 'inmate', 'emotionally', 'health', 'wise', 'financially', 'didnt', 'realize', 'system', 'also', 'far', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'face', 'else']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'didnt', 'even', 'know', 'rep', 'know', 'understand', 'importance', 'country']"
"['need', 'bracket', 'system', 'easily', 'play', 'rape', 'victim', 'way', 'keep', 'ever', 'get', 'legal', 'system', 'card', 'flaw', 'engage', 'sex', 'year', 'old', 'god', 'bid', 'send', 'naked', 'flick', 'chick', 'child', 'another', 'way', 'get', 'conviction', 'dont', 'care', 'walking', 'locked', 'rate', 'take', 'plus', 'make', 'look', 'make', 'longer']"
['nope_ùä']
"['see', 'less', 'squabbling', 'done']"
"['politics', 'bunch', 'trying', 'look', 'good', 'moment', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'second', 'chance', 'many', 'think', 'return', 'prison', 'let', 'drug', 'sex', 'easy', 'hurt', 'man', 'physically', 'circumstance', 'get', 'nobody']"
"['system', 'corrupt']"
"['slightly', 'part', 'become', 'educated', 'works', 'justice', 'system', 'help', 'reformation', 'reconstruction', 'necessary', 'sure', 'call', 'land', 'free', 'one', 'prison', 'world', 'time', 'dont', 'give', 'second', 'theyll', 'give', 'law', 'abiding', 'least', 'every', 'registration', 'parole', 'system', 'designed', 'put', 'back', 'prison', 'reason', 'know', 'guy', 'parole', 'making', 'page', 'seriously', 'come', 'back', 'prison', 'hell', 'legal']"
"['yes', 'say', 'want', 'every', 'vote', 'let', 'vote', 'even']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['el', 'coco']"
"['never', 'took', 'much', 'time', 'listen', 'news', 'going', 'around', 'time']"
['yes']
"['honest', 'yes', 'political', 'regard', 'much', 'informed', 'dont', 'listen', 'say', 'able', 'learn', 'like', 'current', 'presidential', 'really', 'stand', 'even', 'stand', 'believe', 'country', 'stand', 'untied']"
"['used', 'independent', 'leaning', 'democratic', 'party', 'find', 'always', 'seem', 'agree', 'republican']"
"['use', 'would', 'praise', 'took', 'pride', 'however', 'refuse', 'stand', 'look', 'rapist', 'gang', 'serial', 'yet', 'sit', 'back', 'show', 'mass', 'terroristic', 'homeland']"
"['yes', 'become', 'politics', 'halfway', 'see']"
"['see', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'around', 'politics', 'affecting']"
"['political', 'many', 'ways', 'one', 'way', 'inside', 'fact', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'go', 'dealing', 'simple', 'marijuana', 'child', 'support', 'traffic', 'mention', 'since', 'locked', 'tend', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'happening', 'society', 'effect', 'change']"
"['everything', 'politics', 'get', 'older', 'cant', 'help', 'think', 'future', 'like', 'since', 'weve', 'current', 'pretender', 'office', 'currently', 'father', 'absent', 'life', 'god', 'willing', 'getting', 'face', 'deportation', 'country', 'name', 'imagine', 'whats', 'going', 'young', 'right', 'watch', 'news', 'news', 'side', 'world', 'current', 'president', 'nothing', 'uncertainty', 'never', 'life', 'think', 'would', 'watching', 'news', 'right', 'future', 'along', 'limbo', 'yes', 'political', 'tremendously']"
['time']
"['yes', 'time', 'think', 'sitting', 'prison', 'observe', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'world', 'world', 'never', 'really', 'understood', 'going']"
"['want', 'vote', 'cause', 'every', 'vote', 'put', 'office', 'affect', 'family', 'future', 'life', 'come', 'stop', 'office', 'lieve', 'healthy', 'planet']"
"['dont', 'need', 'crooked', 'president']"
"['feel', 'empathy', 'struggling', 'greater', 'understanding', 'like', 'say', 'world', 'around', 'also', 'time', 'think', 'like', 'prison', 'reform']"
[]
"['gotten', 'experience', 'another', 'dimension', 'part', 'population']"
"['horrible', 'idea']"
"['yes', 'tablet', 'political', 'science', 'understand', 'government', 'whats', 'going', 'whats', 'going', 'like', 'think', 'theres', 'bigger', 'issue', 'going', 'stupid', 'trump']"
"['never', 'really', 'used', 'care', 'government', 'didnt', 'think', 'never', 'really', 'choose', 'grow', 'prison', 'perception', 'subject', 'due', 'seeing', 'involved', 'country', 'choose', 'pay', 'attention', 'country', 'ran']"
"['dont', 'prison']"
"['prison', 'thing', 'weird']"
"['watch', 'news', 'see', 'bias', 'different', 'news']"
"['go', 'society', 'sure', 'political', 'many', 'different']"
"['never', 'political', 'prison', 'cause', 'life', 'wrong', 'productive']"
"['feel', 'right', 'person', 'office', 'could', 'impact', 'prison', 'finding', 'right', 'person', 'could', 'thing', 'hard']"
"['naive', 'year', 'old', 'came', 'prison', 'sit', 'reflect', 'got', 'political', 'based']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'opinion', 'specially', 'happening', 'world']"
"['wrong', 'full']"
"['since', 'find', 'politics', 'interesting']"
"['place', 'opportunity', 'educate', 'governing', 'back', 'incarceration', 'based', 'feeling', 'based', 'reality']"
"['look', 'drug', 'better', 'supposed', 'stupid', 'suppose', 'change', 'listen', 'claim', 'help', 'solve', 'truth', 'ignorant', 'nothing', 'talking']"
"['never', 'want', 'try', 'get', 'right', 'person', 'office', 'help']"
"['seen', 'hand', 'prison', 'reform', 'plight', 'mentally', 'ill']"
"['understand', 'strive', 'set', 'fell', 'cycle', 'stays', 'flowing']"
"['beleave', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'help', 'lots', 'like', 'two', 'crime', 'one', 'get', 'like', 'one', 'get', 'everyone', 'matter']"
"['hyper', 'aware', 'politically', 'lucid', 'justification', 'whats', 'right']"
"['well', 'time', 'think']"
"['dont', 'know', 'answer']"
"['politics', 'key', 'role', 'prison', 'choosing', 'side', 'better', 'change', 'view', 'politics']"
"['come', 'understand', 'clearly', 'freedom', 'wish', 'even', 'come', 'slowly', 'removed', 'dont', 'even', 'realize']"
"['never', 'really', 'find', 'watching', 'much', 'going', 'never', 'knew']"
"['die', 'hard', 'democrat', 'several', 'later', 'know', 'party', 'identification', 'solely', 'republican']"
"['political', 'absent', 'develop', 'aware', 'nation']"
"['justice', 'system', 'true', 'justice', 'full', 'spouting', 'like', 'innocent', 'proven', 'guilty', 'restorative', 'justice', 'side', 'see', 'get', 'fact', 'court', 'already', 'assume', 'guilty', 'well', 'must', 'guilty', 'fit', 'crime', 'work', 'hand', 'hand', 'together', 'defense', 'side', 'left', 'loop', 'concerned', 'conviction', 'sentence', 'true', 'justice', 'time', 'crime', 'nothing', 'consider', 'individual', 'working', 'really', 'bad', 'ever', 'yet', 'told', 'different', 'got', 'caught', 'havent', 'arent', 'bad', 'made', 'bad', 'choice', 'training', 'sho']"
['explain']
[]
[]
"['become', 'aware', 'pertinent', 'never', 'really', 'considered', 'incarceration']"
"['went', 'see', 'inside', 'looking', 'view', 'seeing', 'really', 'represent', 'removing', 'racial', 'identity', 'equation', 'maturing', 'wanting', 'certain', 'stopped']"
"['prison', 'respect', 'rule', 'law', 'politics', 'interesting', 'prison', 'come', 'greatly', 'care', 'world', 'country', 'state', 'care', 'respect', 'need', 'care', 'make', 'life', 'country', 'free', 'world', 'family', 'future']"
"['yes', 'keeping', 'us', 'helping', 'us', 'succeed', 'get', 'plus', 'lot', 'lot']"
"['world', 'live', 'good', 'see', 'trying', 'make']"
"['didnt', 'really', 'care', 'care', 'less', 'interested', 'know', 'cant']"
"['didnt', 'political']"
['wasnt']
"['time', 'ever', 'host', 'wrongfully', 'politics', 'dont', 'care', 'actual', 'justice', 'think', 'many', 'help', 'keep', 'incarcerate', 'evidence', 'kind', 'truly', 'sad', 'yes', 'political', 'extremely', 'change']"
"['well', 'place', 'see']"
[]
"['gotten', 'older', 'educated']"
"['fact', 'world', 'world']"
"['never', 'really', 'voting', 'much', 'anything', 'gotten', 'older', 'wanting', 'make', 'difference', 'world']"
"['politics', 'worried', 'money', 'raise']"
"['made', 'see', 'vivid', 'picture', 'enforced', 'mostly', 'get', 'measure', 'punishment', 'also', 'making', 'totally', 'disconnected', 'reality', 'impact', 'oblivious', 'actually', 'happening', 'want', 'please', 'party', 'base']"
"['slightly', 'understanding', 'plight', 'sex', 'offender', 'prison', 'outside']"
"['young', 'young', 'reckless', 'foolish', 'never', 'thought', 'think', 'best', 'family', 'think', 'introspection', 'educated', 'insight']"
"['running', 'different', 'tell', 'public', 'going', 'know', 'aint', 'going', 'tell', 'get', 'support']"
"['realize', 'country', 'pretty', 'worried', 'wrong']"
"['well', 'never', 'prison', 'yr', 'veteran', 'army', 'never', 'attention', 'prison', 'politics', 'even', 'watch', 'like', 'see', 'filth', 'unjustice', 'world', 'horrific', 'treatment', 'staff', 'medical', 'personal', 'fact', 'system', 'never', 'getting', 'unless', 'money', 'fighting', 'yet', 'prevail', 'nothing', 'one', 'must', 'knowledge', 'seasoned', 'attorney', 'must', 'gain', 'knowledge', 'less', 'year', 'time', 'prepare', 'submit', 'one', 'know', 'fight', 'without', 'assistance', 'ill', 'tell', 'dont', 'wing', 'enough', 'pray', 'tremendously', 'court', 'counsel', 'thing', 'prison', 'hope', 'hope', 'reach', 'us', 'hope', 'justice', 'hope', 'dont', 'die', 'either', 'old', 'age', 'another', 'inmate']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'think', 'fair', 'crime', 'get', 'different', 'time']"
['much']
"['regarding', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'completely', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'supposed', 'seak', 'truth', 'necessary', 'provide', 'punishment', 'crime', 'hand', 'life', 'effective', 'life', 'like', 'candy', 'however', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'perverted', 'desire', 'win', 'conviction', 'pad', 'conviction', 'rate', 'county', 'parish', 'pad', 'status', 'longer', 'truth', 'long', 'prosecutor', 'conviction', 'care', 'truth', 'right', 'wrong', 'justice', 'injustice']"
"['growing', 'black', 'household', 'seeing', 'taught', 'assumed', 'taken', 'overtime', 'reading', 'child', 'even', 'give', 'benefit', 'independent', 'want', 'vote', 'worked', 'vote']"
"['use', 'think', 'system', 'seen', 'hand', 'innocent', 'get', 'put', 'away', 'look', 'good']"
"['justice', 'system', 'fair', 'equal', 'even', 'political', 'view']"
"['dont', 'claim', 'political', 'party', 'late', 'want', 'need', 'understand', 'problem', 'god', 'everything', 'really', 'trying', 'moral', 'intact', 'want', 'claim', 'office']"
"['word', 'miss', 'way', 'felt', 'drastically', 'yr', 'old', 'man', 'understanding', 'prison', 'reform', 'change', 'better', 'getting', 'longer', 'dependent', 'system', 'safe', 'place', 'get', 'hard', 'control', 'education', 'become', 'user', 'friendly', 'mean', 'another', 'criminal', 'living', 'next', 'thats', 'criminal', 'teach', 'man', 'fish', 'give', 'one']"
"['used', 'care', 'president', 'long', 'integrity', 'responsibly', 'would', 'like', 'see', 'president', 'reunite', 'country', 'achieve', 'great']"
"['care', 'prison', 'justice', 'reform', 'wronged']"
"['see', 'truly', 'goes', 'system', 'justice', 'reform', 'poor', 'uneducated', 'suffer', 'many', 'times', 'justice', 'system']"
"['watch', 'used', 'feel', 'informed']"
"['belive', 'never', 'want', 'take', 'mi', 'time', 'care', 'politics', 'time', 'know', 'import', 'need', 'try', 'make', 'change']"
"['didnt', 'care']"
"['yes', 'due', 'fact', 'never', 'oppressed', 'inmate', 'population', 'forced', 'form', 'capital', 'punishment', 'fair', 'shouldnt', 'lose', 'right', 'vote']"
"['never', 'crime', 'stuck', 'said', 'say', 'bull', 'kit', 'base', 'said', 'crime', 'puddock', 'said', 'got', 'tell', 'jury', 'cant', 'bull', 'find', 'guilt', 'protecting', 'body', 'could', 'throw', 'book']"
"['yes', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'idea', 'impact', 'politics', 'whole', 'crime', 'punishment', 'issue', 'understand', 'locking', 'one', 'politician', 'keeping', 'employed', 'inordinately', 'high', 'pay', 'scale', 'mostly', 'useless', 'work', 'spend', 'awful', 'lot', 'money', 'feeding', 'helping', 'wealthy', 'stay', 'wealthy', 'bleeding', 'lower', 'middle', 'class', 'dry', 'exceptionally', 'good', 'ways', 'keep', 'growing', 'number', 'order', 'fuel', 'prison', 'industry', 'clearly', 'willing', 'find', 'ways', 'get', 'back', 'society', 'productive', 'good', 'example', 'person', 'murder', 'perform', 'nearly', 'impossible', 'hope', 'getting', 'prison', 'alive', 'yet', 'average', 'unbelievably', 'lower', 'recidivism', 'rate', 'group']"
"['aint', 'tell']"
"['feel', 'government', 'locked', 'us', 'away', 'like', 'matter', 'still', 'matter']"
"['come', 'understand', 'given', 'legit', 'second', 'chance', 'believe', 'would', 'success']"
"['almost', 'yrs', 'since', 'time', 'world', 'many', 'ways', 'open', 'see', 'world', 'clearer', 'ever', 'sure', 'explain', 'answer', 'though']"
['somewhat']
"['seen', 'political', 'make', 'truly', 'effect', 'prisoner', 'system']"
"['well', 'since', 'twenty', 'old', 'basically', 'black', 'president', 'vote', 'last', 'time', 'older', 'maturer', 'look', 'lot', 'could', 'care', 'less', 'whether', 'black', 'white', 'blue', 'someone', 'prison', 'reform', 'restoration', 'broken', 'idea', 'prisoner', 'change']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'enough', 'political', 'understand', 'vital', 'importance']"
"['believe', 'lot', 'follow', 'chance', 'explain', 'one', 'many', 'going', 'injustice', 'system', 'brought', 'new', 'awareness', 'broken', 'never', 'voter', 'simply', 'never', 'impacted', 'life', 'love', 'main', 'havent', 'much', 'criminal', 'justice', 'crime', 'punishment', 'racism', 'like', 'dealing', 'drug', 'epidemic', 'poverty', 'homelessness', 'like', 'greater', 'compassion', 'men', 'gotten', 'know', 'mainly', 'effective', 'hand', 'meaningful', 'treatment', 'could', 'say', 'much', 'more_ùä']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'lighter', 'punishment', 'pro', 'think', 'outside', 'able', 'see', 'arent', 'good', 'us', 'reform']"
[]
"['gone', 'republican', 'towards', 'authenticity', 'political', 'little', 'dont', 'trust']"
"['clearer', 'truth', 'behind', 'politics', 'example', 'put', 'person', 'prison', 'life', 'simply', 'failing', 'register', 'one', 'reason', 'ask', 'support', 'mass', 'legal', 'human', 'often', 'time', 'received', 'base', 'tax', 'paying']"
"['look', 'get', 'never', 'get', 'believe', 'want', 'hear']"
"['gotten', 'interested', 'pay', 'attention', 'world', 'news', 'aware', 'whats', 'going']"
"['open', 'minded', 'today']"
"['tuned', 'going', 'country', 'time', 'sit', 'watch', 'often', 'find', 'going', 'library']"
['cor']
"['view', 'gun', 'control']"
['watch']
"['see', 'voting', 'right', 'see', 'order', 'voice', 'vote', 'closed', 'mouth', 'cant', 'get', 'feed', 'need', 'share', 'portion', 'need']"
"['injustice', 'justice', 'system']"
"['didnt', 'believe', 'government', 'affected', 'life', 'didnt', 'care', 'realize', 'voice']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'support', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['want', 'right', 'person']"
"['watching', 'fox', 'news', 'trump', 'ass', 'ran', 'female', 'need', 'taking', 'right', 'carry', 'dealt', 'thats', 'watching', 'damn', 'still', 'dealing']"
"['never', 'really', 'considered', 'point', 'view', 'effect', 'political', 'one']"
['thin']
"['better', 'sit', 'around']"
"['would', 'like', 'back']"
"['wen', 'come', 'dont']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'impeachment']"
[]
[]
"['young', 'dumb', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'ran', 'country', 'older', 'starting', 'realize', 'much', 'effect']"
"['seen', 'havent', 'done', 'far', 'reform', 'different', 'outlook', 'could', 'done', 'make', 'better']"
"['really', 'think', 'politics', 'stayed']"
"['prison', 'time']"
"['see', 'society', 'like', 'trash', 'real', 'chance', 'improve', 'ourself', 'correctional', 'simply', 'harass', 'give', 'us', 'bare', 'minimum', 'tax', 'us', 'beyond', 'imagination', 'steal', 'us', 'charge', 'us', 'stole']"
"['society', 'today', 'prison', 'like', 'us', 'better', 'us', 'say', 'wrong', 'difference', 'havent', 'gotten', 'caught']"
"['longer', 'incarceration', 'drawn', 'bitter', 'sick', 'becoming', 'trump', 'done', 'many', 'improve', 'extended', 'ruined']"
"['dont', 'give', 'us']"
"['cause', 'feel', 'pushing']"
"['seeing', 'true', 'colors']"
['wrong']
"['see', 'free', 'world', 'think', 'locked', 'throw', 'away', 'feel', 'close', 'giving', 'job', 'save', 'money', 'able', 'help', 'get']"
"['due', 'incarceration', 'feel', 'certain', 'profile', 'racism', 'comes', 'faze']"
[]
"['didnt', 'really', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'incarceration', 'way', 'state', 'follow', 'federal', 'start', 'paying', 'attention', 'expect', 'us', 'follow', 'law', 'wont']"
"['yes', 'general', 'intentional', 'learning', 'nationally']"
"['decided', 'direct', 'affect', 'upon', 'direct', 'affect', 'cause', 'pay', 'attention', 'law', 'making']"
"['shouldnt', 'stop', 'person', 'voting']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'become', 'important', 'issue']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'still', 'well', 'good', 'time', 'learning']"
"['made', 'aware', 'feel', 'especially', 'lower', 'class']"
['yes']
"['prison', 'shown', 'system', 'rehabilitation', 'reform', 'law', 'abiding', 'fact', 'accurate', 'matter', 'worse', 'charge', 'care', 'price', 'comes', 'long', 'need', 'focus', 'prison', 'system', 'create', 'better', 'upon', 'release', 'well', 'versed', 'society']"
"['look', 'much', 'news', 'like', 'know', 'whats', 'happen']"
['impeachment']
"['young', 'basically', 'opinion', 'older', 'growing', 'future', 'future', 'society']"
"['one', 'fund', 'many', 'money', 'go', 'tax', 'prison', 'system', 'one', 'behind', 'scam', 'cheat', 'considered', 'human', 'matter', 'far', 'outdated']"
"['didnt', 'give', 'crap', 'politics', 'president', 'anything', 'related', 'care', 'whats', 'going', 'us', 'handling', 'every', 'situation', 'keep', 'great']"
"['doesnt', 'self', 'agenda', 'anything', 'make', 'kind', 'money', 'self', 'super', 'rich']"
['distrust']
"['thought', 'justice', 'system', 'worked', 'thought', 'case', 'correct', 'sentence', 'given', 'case', 'minimum', 'play', 'option', 'downward', 'depart', 'various', 'number', 'one', 'reason', 'time', 'offender', 'anyway', 'quickly', 'learned', 'system', 'political', 'slam', 'dunk', 'case', 'deserve', 'wish', 'could', 'contribute', 'society', 'could', 'vote', 'would', 'research']"
"['feel', 'state', 'know', 'answer', 'fix', 'wish', 'look', 'weak', 'make', 'inmate', 'look', 'like', 'real', 'bad', 'hope']"
"['affect', 'much', 'civilian']"
"['seem', 'time', 'actually', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'like', 'seeing']"
"['time', 'seeing', 'impact', 'us']"
"['reason', 'understand', 'effect', 'us', 'important', 'largely', 'uninformed']"
"['would', 'come', 'system', 'un', 'fair', 'live', 'right', 'care', 'environment', 'extreme', 'way', 'trying', 'force', 'us', 'believe', 'us', 'worker', 'rest', 'despise', 'fact', 'us', 'collude', 'illegal', 'us', 'accuse', 'falsely', 'must', 'protect', 'second', 'class', 'bay', 'little', 'second']"
"['system', 'since', 'incarceration', 'come', 'across', 'wrong']"
"['crime', 'actually', 'innocent', 'become', 'interested', 'finding', 'hold', 'corrupt', 'wrongfully', 'responsible', 'oversee', 'think', 'constitutional', 'suppose', 'protect', 'poor', 'like', 'prove', 'without', 'shadow', 'doubt', 'dirty', 'prosecution', 'knowingly', 'used', 'false', 'evidence', 'obtain', 'conviction', 'turning', 'judicial', 'system', 'climate', 'corruption']"
"['dealing', 'politics']"
"['lot', 'even', 'explain', 'self']"
"['trump', 'got', 'gas', 'done', 'country', 'far', 'gas', 'done', 'much', 'country', 'done', 'country', 'raise', 'mention', 'raise', 'selfish', 'trump', 'also', 'us', 'go', 'war', 'brought', 'back', 'lot', 'fir']"
"['change', 'outcome', 'sentence']"
"['understanding', 'one', 'time']"
"['vote', 'specific', 'person']"
"['well', 'think', 'hard', 'giving', 'time']"
"['able', 'slow', 'see', 'whats', 'going']"
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['incarceration', 'change', 'learned', 'much', 'informed', 'perspective', 'opine']"
"['learning', 'politics']"
"['see', 'fall', 'worse', 'new', 'ways', 'tend', 'greater']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'country']"
"['yes', 'ignorant', 'make', 'business', 'inform', 'comment', 'incarceration', 'way', 'become', 'publicity', 'stunt', 'forgot', 'point', 'help']"
"['president', 'country', 'distasteful']"
"['see', 'much', 'ago']"
"['see', 'product', 'broken', 'system', 'see', 'hand', 'forgotten', 'population', 'need', 'help', 'cage']"
"['didnt', 'know', 'difference', 'democrat', 'republican']"
"['living', 'dangerous', 'times', 'former', 'felon', 'seen', 'outcast', 'result', 'crime', 'label', 'hard', 'get', 'hired', 'hard', 'get', 'place', 'live', 'despite', 'time']"
"['understand', 'importance', 'prison', 'reform', 'instead', 'locking']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'research', 'see', 'much', 'political', 'impact', 'country']"
"['see', 'bad', 'justice', 'system', 'also', 'many', 'related']"
"['never', 'ran', 'country', 'see', 'impact', 'poor', 'caught', 'system']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'happing', 'world', 'whats', 'going', 'world', 'today', 'want', 'change', 'change']"
['whatever']
"['absolutely', 'world']"
"['use', 'found', 'someone', 'get', 'stay', 'behind']"
"['much', 'moderate']"
[]
"['think', 'everyone']"
"['strongly', 'drawn', 'republican', 'seen']"
['yes']
"['tend', 'point', 'view']"
"['well', 'becoming', 'informed', 'political', 'stance', 'democratic', 'republican', 'due', 'understanding', 'economic', 'situation', 'greatly', 'affected', 'abuse', 'government', 'aide']"
"['wish', 'know', 'regarding', 'state', 'country']"
"['used', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'care']"
"['dont', 'want', 'prison', 'reform', 'make', 'think']"
"['understand', 'passing', 'certain', 'target', 'black', 'brown']"
"['collaboration', 'information']"
"['become', 'interested', 'sides', 'daily', 'basis', 'make', 'informed']"
"['time', 'think', 'study']"
"['said', 'tried', 'get', 'treatment', 'need', 'prevent', 'suicide', 'eleven', 'would', 'received', 'treatment', 'little', 'problem', 'tea', 'party', 'republican', 'state', 'fight', 'tooth', 'nail', 'every', 'little', 'bit', 'treatment', 'received']"
['aware']
['person']
"['know', 'much', 'voice', 'would', 'make', 'back', 'got', 'bur', 'get']"
"['yes', 'time', 'sit', 'back', 'look', 'world']"
"['need', 'make', 'office', 'say', 'going', 'office', 'instead', 'false']"
"['side', 'prison', 'seen', 'picture', 'media', 'painted']"
"['straight', 'knowledge', 'understanding', 'grown', 'greatly']"
"['truly', 'wish', 'vote', 'maybe', 'vote', 'would', 'make', 'difference', 'country', 'yes']"
"['much', 'interested', 'prison', 'reform', 'issue', 'need', 'better', 'chance', 'suppose', 'department', 'key', 'corrected', 'better', 'return', 'society', 'role']"
"['feel', 'towards', 'independent']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'government', 'concern', 'want', 'help', 'us', 'succeed', 'upon', 'release', 'admire', 'trump', 'stand', 'prison', 'reform']"
['unsure']
"['lot', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'political']"
"['democrat', 'republican']"
"['god', 'life', 'many']"
"['lock', 'time', 'look', 'whole', 'picture']"
"['seeing', 'different', 'side']"
"['id', 'used', 'think', 'didnt', 'matter', 'going', 'put', 'whoever', 'want', 'office', 'di', 'see', 'voice', 'opinion', 'despite', 'crime']"
"['would', 'like', 'see', 'change', 'inside', 'dont', 'come', 'back']"
"['treat', 'equally', 'spend', 'time', 'court', 'time', 'get', 'correct']"
"['hate', 'state', 'done']"
"['use', 'ignorant', 'didnt', 'really', 'look', 'would', 'talk', 'whether', 'trustworthy', 'pay', 'attention', 'speaking', 'homework']"
"['system', 'meant', 'anyone', 'even', 'still', 'going', 'hold', 'past', 'us', 'say', 'send', 'us', 'corrected', 'dont', 'even', 'look', 'even', 'better', 'want', 'keep', 'us', 'parole', 'serve', 'time', 'legal', 'system', 'shouldnt', 'anything']"
"['well', 'instead', 'voting', 'need', 'fixing', 'sending', 'state', 'privately', 'human']"
"['throw', 'anyone', 'prison']"
"['incarceration', 'ignorant', 'politics', 'individual', 'family', 'could', 'subject', 'given', 'day', 'education', 'gun', 'public', 'aid', 'min', 'wage', 'subjected', 'judicial', 'time', 'read', 'sociopolitical', 'informed', 'importance', 'knowledgeable', 'involved', 'making']"
"['yes', 'used', 'care', 'either', 'way']"
"['good', 'time', 'raised']"
['yes']
['think']
"['thought', 'system', 'help', 'got', 'trouble', 'soon', 'found', 'case', 'later', 'life', 'good', 'good', 'lawyer', 'told', 'government', 'many', 'ways', 'set', 'place', 'come', 'along', 'something', 'like', 'house', 'state', 'rep', 'get', 'keep', 'seat', 'lower', 'standing', 'sat', 'told', 'quota', 'must', 'make', 'example', 'would', 'plead', 'sentence', 'prison', 'son', 'local', 'da', 'could', 'get', 'probation', 'revolving', 'door', 'move', 'us', 'want', 'society', 'marked', 'even', 'still', 'dont', 'help', 'real', 'fact', 'system', 'set', 'motion', 'always', 'wanting', 'make', 'money', 'lie', 'dont']"
"['number', 'used', 'political', 'gain']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'vote', 'since']"
"['innocent', 'man', 'prison', 'something', 'need', 'one', 'fight', 'innocent', 'man', 'prison']"
"['think', 'wrong', 'system']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'thought', 'race', 'divided', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'paying', 'attention', 'government', 'news']"
"['know', 'innocent', 'case', 'even', 'medical', 'evidence', 'proving', 'male', 'sex', 'case', 'found', 'guilty', 'without', 'circumstantial', 'physical', 'electronic', 'photographic', 'evidence', 'despite', 'accuser', 'never', 'told', 'tale', 'twice', 'see', 'clearly', 'justice', 'system', 'needs', 'complete', 'overhaul', 'justice', 'thought', 'everybody', 'deserved', 'innocent', 'trying', 'escape', 'guilt', 'case', 'see', 'differently']"
"['nut', 'shell', 'human', 'race', 'prison']"
"['pay', 'closer', 'attention', 'world', 'politics', 'still', 'view', 'deceitful', 'hidden']"
"['never', 'anything', 'politics', 'idea', 'effect', 'political', 'group']"
[]
"['yea', 'news', 'informed', 'going', 'theyre', 'community', 'country']"
"['probably', 'never', 'get', 'need', 'help', 'maybe', 'drug', 'problem']"
"['longer', 'care']"
"['hate', 'government', 'want', 'left', 'alone']"
"['many', 'nutshell', 'would', 'say', 'educated', 'prison', 'good', 'insight', 'think', 'part', 'process', 'still', 'tax', 'representation']"
"['way', 'prison']"
"['time', 'see', 'crap', 'political', 'system', 'poor', 'uneducated']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'see', 'different']"
"['everyone', 'past', 'believe', 'second', 'used', 'think', 'different', 'change']"
"['trump', 'best', 'country', 'since']"
"['like', 'free']"
"['see', 'bad', 'system']"
"['follow', 'politics', 'streets']"
"['used', 'probably', 'majority', 'though', 'always', 'actually', 'innocent', 'wrongly', 'maliciously', 'thats', 'deserve', 'well', 'time', 'prison', 'come', 'know', 'many', 'sons', 'many', 'prison', 'unfortunately', 'rest', 'made', 'one', 'stupid', 'mistake', 'took', 'little', 'innocent', 'made', 'one', 'stupid', 'mistake', 'rest', 'life', 'well', 'get', 'prison', 'cant', 'cope', 'commit', 'suicide', 'become', 'criminal', 'whose', 'back', 'know', 'comfortable']"
"['much', 'tuned', 'political', 'climate', 'find', 'hard', 'express']"
"['went', 'prison', 'learned', 'firm', 'taught', 'lot', 'news']"
"['time', 'half', 'century', 'finally', 'got', 'witness', 'someone', 'like', 'trump', 'actually', 'wonderful']"
"['feel', 'like', 'ever', 'since', 'incarceration', 'different']"
"['feel', 'pick', 'side', 'black', 'white', 'dont', 'take', 'time', 'look', 'best']"
"['actually', 'believe', 'degree', 'would', 'like', 'fix', 'point', 'would', 'probably', 'listen', 'case', 'vote']"
"['always', 'making', 'better', 'good', 'time', 'helping', 'prepare', 'civilized', 'always', 'helping', 'nation', 'better']"
"['growing', 'concerned', 'community', 'care', 'president', 'going', 'next', 'try']"
['open']
"['keep', 'getting', 'keep', 'worrying', 'wrong', 'think', 'time', 'godsend', 'important', 'need', 'done', 'done', 'instead', 'dont', 'really', 'matter']"
"['government', 'wrong']"
['comment']
"['arent', 'vote']"
"['voice', 'maybe', 'would', 'benefit']"
[]
[]
['informed']
"['helping', 'need', 'government', 'look']"
"['one', 'prey', 'several', 'manipulative', 'tactics', 'politics', 'well', 'vote', 'crucial', 'part', 'political', 'system', 'vote', 'take', 'official', 'like', 'prison', 'one', 'must', 'learn', 'look', 'past', 'grandeur', 'splendor', 'order', 'discover', 'true', 'test', 'veracity', 'said', 'downfall', 'greed', 'discover', 'certain', 'suffer', 'vulnerability', 'corruption', 'combine', 'greed', 'politics', 'one', 'discover', 'really', 'position', 'feel', 'critical', 'start', 'paying', 'attention', 'really', 'said', 'potential', 'make', 'rational', 'instead']"
"['thought', 'longer', 'would', 'help', 'wrong', 'help', 'change', 'willing', 'greatly', 'dont', 'change', 'hearts', 'punishment', 'system', 'like', 'society', 'lock', 'sometimes', 'forget']"
[]
"['always', 'agreed', 'see', 'interested', 'helping', 'reform', 'hate', 'us', 'also', 'fail', 'see', 'lack', 'serious', 'need', 'mental', 'health', 'research', 'treatment', 'need', 'real', 'help']"
"['simply', 'friend', 'since', 'often', 'declared', 'reform', 'found', 'true', 'equally', 'uninterested', 'real', 'reform', 'interested', 'change', 'departmental', 'leadership']"
"['become', 'aware', 'importance', 'voting', 'run', 'platform']"
"['attention', 'used', 'think', 'locked', 'deserved', 'whatever', 'treat', 'way', 'realize', 'history', 'complex', 'political', 'system', 'either', 'value', 'dont', 'look', 'past', 'surface', 'said', 'lean', 'guidance', 'spirit', 'inside', 'open', 'think', 'feel']"
"['informed', 'concerning', 'political', 'realm']"
"['want', 'make', 'know', 'state', 'law', 'every', 'day', 'benefit', 'needs', 'prison', 'number', 'slave']"
"['believe', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'minimum', 'custody', 'need', 'reduce', 'prison', 'population', 'needs', 'good', 'time']"
"['difficult', 'politically', 'country']"
"['care', 'office']"
"['use', 'think', 'prison', 'many', 'without', 'money', 'afford', 'real', 'lawyer', 'part', 'wont', 'go', 'prison', 'get', 'much', 'less', 'time', 'system', 'rich', 'poor']"
"['trump', 'made', 'country', 'look', 'bad']"
"['yes', 'seeing', 'hand']"
"['getting', 'locked', 'never', 'really', 'thought', 'politics', 'since', 'watch', 'news', 'every', 'day', 'speak', 'sister', 'politics', 'understanding', 'much', 'better']"
"['didnt', 'understand', 'prison', 'system', 'nation', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'part', 'system', 'see', 'daily', 'feel', 'would', 'never', 'vote', 'hard', 'problem', 'would', 'support', 'offender', 'change', 'world', 'change', 'person']"
"['used', 'believe', 'fair', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'right', 'thing', 'learned', 'money', 'power']"
"['politics', 'ever', 'see', 'power', 'voting']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'didnt', 'care', 'life', 'could', 'manage', 'get', 'damn', 'near', 'cant', 'get', 'decent', 'job', 'help', 'stay', 'line', 'middle', 'class', 'scrap', 'dirty', 'stuff', 'stay', 'afloat', 'everything', 'need', 'buy', 'going', 'price', 'pay', 'stays', 'way', 'long', 'us', 'rich', 'better', 'us', 'smart', 'rich', 'struggle', 'cause', 'fight', 'fot', 'stance', 'society']"
"['become', 'informed', 'since']"
"['yea', 'found', 'dont', 'care']"
['ååå']
"['dont', 'feel', 'way', 'far', 'go']"
"['use', 'belive', 'serve', 'entire', 'sentence', 'experienced', 'unlawful', 'prison', 'physically', 'forced', 'serve', 'years', 'day']"
"['skewed', 'toward', 'certain', 'unfairly', 'unjustly']"
"['watch', 'whats', 'going', 'busy', 'life']"
"['concerned', 'prison']"
"['greater', 'need', 'support', 'support', 'stand', 'firmly', 'truth']"
"['know', 'whats', 'real']"
"['seen', 'lot', 'unjust']"
"['feel', 'like', 'everyone', 'locked', 'chance', 'vote']"
"['used', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'taken', 'time', 'watch', 'learn', 'little', 'also', 'future']"
"['cause', 'see', 'reform', 'prison']"
['yes']
"['informed', 'form', 'opinion']"
"['locked', 'forced', 'pay', 'attention', 'news', 'general', 'watching']"
"['aware', 'power', 'collective', 'voice', 'used', 'make', 'felt', 'necessary', 'aware', 'willing', 'involved', 'way', 'allow']"
"['effect', 'us', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'got', 'lock', 'didnt', 'time', 'politics', 'search', 'best', 'country', 'participate', 'see', 'voting', 'make', 'great']"
"['seen', 'different', 'angle', 'treatment', 'face', 'think', 'petty', 'offender', 'serve', 'prison', 'time', 'knowing', 'full', 'extent', 'prison', 'sentence', 'would', 'person', 'period', 'time']"
"['see', 'cultural']"
"['yes', 'change', 'dew', 'long', 'time', 'ago', 'hurt', 'help', 'percentage', 'would', 'help', 'someone', 'get']"
"['since', 'become', 'adult', 'rather', 'say', 'political', 'would', 'say', 'political', 'standing', 'dont', 'know', 'exactly', 'stand', 'touch', 'politics', 'though']"
"['incarceration', 'didnt', 'since', 'time', 'inform', 'educate', 'many', 'affect', 'family']"
"['know', 'power', 'seek', 'divide', 'us', 'yet', 'claim', 'desire', 'unite', 'us', 'ever', 'one', 'god']"
"['become', 'conservative']"
"['political', 'cannot', 'vote']"
"['less', 'aware', 'reality', 'entertainment']"
"['never', 'part', 'criminal', 'system', 'idea', 'bad', 'country', 'honorably', 'crime', 'commit', 'cried', 'innocence', 'whole', 'time', 'hit', 'head']"
"['came', 'prison', 'young', 'yrs', 'old', 'older', 'wiser', 'mind', 'middle', 'ground', 'ground', 'exist']"
"['yes', 'care', 'stuff', 'see', 'important', 'vote', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'wasnt', 'worried']"
"['see', 'adult', 'time', 'grow', 'young']"
[]
"['watching', 'politics', 'streets']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'republican', 'even', 'though', 'think', 'would', 'likely', 'help', 'religious', 'religious', 'fall', 'towards', 'republican']"
"['find', 'conservative', 'days']"
"['didnt', 'care']"
['never']
"['many', 'political', 'give', 'small', 'petty', 'time', 'prison', 'instead', 'helping', 'reform', 'help', 'productive', 'giving']"
"['sue', 'think', 'president', 'dumb', 'racist', 'stand', 'point', 'view']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'say', 'saying', 'something']"
"['used', 'every', 'new', 'weapon', 'military', 'could', 'design', 'feel', 'weve', 'built', 'could', 'use', 'strength', 'always', 'good', 'philosophy']"
"['didnt', 'think', 'much', 'look', 'face', 'daily', 'understand', 'importance', 'voting']"
[]
"['yes', 'somewhat', 'everything', 'different', 'inside', 'way', 'personally', 'look', 'politic', 'politics', 'like', 'instead', 'two', 'main', 'political', 'like', 'two', 'big', 'fighting', 'territory', 'interest', 'also', 'know', 'interest', 'power', 'way', 'might', 'gain', 'sort', 'interest', 'may', 'right', 'vote']"
"['criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'works', 'rich', 'famous', 'ie', 'comes', 'mind', 'quarter', 'poor', 'person', 'advantage', 'example', 'court', 'work', 'trying', 'convict', 'balance', 'poor', 'get', 'get', 'country', 'club', 'twenty', 'thirty', 'days', 'special', 'provision', 'actually', 'prison']"
"['please', 'refer', 'previous', 'answer']"
['clearly']
"['yes', 'feel', 'want', 'system', 'world', 'put', 'right', 'make', 'right', 'system', 'country']"
"['bad', 'prison', 'pretty', 'nice', 'got', 'bad', 'got', 'caught', 'innocent', 'need', 'stay', 'need', 'better', 'good', 'time', 'release', 'drug']"
"['yes', 'think', 'less', 'prison', 'reform', 'used', 'look', 'person', 'crime', 'still', 'work', 'dont', 'believe', 'locking', 'everyone', 'year', 'old', 'prior', 'add', 'time', 'current', 'conviction', 'already', 'time', 'current', 'sentence', 'double']"
"['used', 'naive', 'view', 'towards', 'politics', 'thinking', 'best', 'mind', 'course', 'could', 'hold', 'true', 'small', 'percentage', 'attempt', 'better', 'power', 'station', 'majority', 'power', 'divided', 'country']"
"['id', 'rather', 'involved', 'id', 'love', 'teach', 'much', 'honor', 'involved', 'citizen', 'crime', 'wish', 'could', 'erase']"
"['say', 'politics', 'nation']"
[]
"['switched', 'democrat', 'instead', 'libertarian', 'conservatism', 'social', 'aspect']"
"['insight', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'shown', 'flawed', 'much', 'needs']"
"['think', 'trying', 'help', 'prison', 'last', 'time']"
"['outside', 'dont', 'see', 'really', 'goes', 'prison', 'way', 'different', 'time', 'prison', 'see', 'read']"
"['know', 'justice', 'system', 'works', 'dealt', 'seen', 'inside', 'also', 'hear', 'many', 'see', 'many']"
"['although', 'dont', 'watch', 'keep', 'think', 'differently', 'would', 'like', 'see', 'state', 'country']"
"['never', 'prison', 'reform', 'coming', 'prison']"
['know']
['war']
"['chose', 'vote', 'candidate', 'express', 'never', 'check', 'back', 'track']"
"['radical', 'left', 'liberal', 'communist', 'scum']"
"['give', 'chance', 'vote', 'like', 'trump', 'never', 'get', 'office']"
['slightly']
"['two', 'raised', 'since', 'day', 'born', 'got', 'woman', 'since', 'high', 'company', 'amazing', 'woman', 'never', 'thought', 'would', 'life', 'time', 'life', 'political', 'crime', 'thought', 'deserved', 'punishment', 'crime', 'little', 'know', 'time', 'always', 'respect', 'law', 'country', 'always', 'still', 'knowing', 'lot', 'situation', 'crime', 'never', 'say', 'hope', 'innocence']"
"['teen', 'locked', 'political', 'led', 'economist', 'support', 'catholic']"
"['given', 'clear', 'view']"
"['thinking', 'great', 'amount']"
"['yes', 'person', 'thats', 'system', 'since', 'prison', 'reform', 'could', 'ago', 'never', 'topic', 'discussion', 'seen', 'instead', 'time', 'push', 'get', 'high', 'school', 'diploma', 'time', 'kept', 'telling', 'sentence', 'long', 'get', 'diploma', 'finally', 'able', 'apply', 'get', 'imagine', 'dont', 'motivation', 'keep', 'focus', 'opportunity', 'better', 'self', 'system', 'still', 'training', 'help', 'thats', 'whoever', 'read', 'please', 'help', 'us']"
"['seeing', 'party', 'better', 'agenda']"
"['grew', 'time', 'going', 'generation', 'back', 'one', 'thing', 'thats', 'always', 'true', 'level', 'racism', 'united', 'like', 'nothing', 'little', 'thing', 'freedom', 'expression', 'fat', 'office', 'worried', 'got', 'money']"
[]
"['dont', 'care']"
"['since', 'locked', 'able', 'notice', 'certain', 'didnt']"
"['strongly', 'right', 'thing', 'trump', 'believe', 'right', 'thing', 'us', 'left', 'get', 'office']"
"['official', 'behind', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['locked', 'legal', 'system', 'right', 'thing', 'see', 'making', 'career', 'move', 'forward']"
"['see', 'society', 'underbelly', 'lied', 'would', 'never', 'thought', 'would', 'treat', 'harshly', 'based', 'sex', 'offender', 'right', 'next', 'didnt', 'treat', 'different', 'give', 'second', 'chance', 'real', 'second', 'chance']"
"['knowledge', 'many', 'politic', 'didnt', 'seen', 'ignorant', 'affect', 'life']"
"['watch', 'reading', 'newspaper']"
"['see', 'need', 'make', 'incarceration', 'also', 'see', 'sides', 'reform', 'previously']"
"['see', 'running', 'county', 'fake', 'news', 'come']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'case', 'made', 'one', 'wrong', 'choice', 'suffer', 'rest', 'life', 'right']"
"['didnt', 'opinion', 'interest']"
"['never', 'politics', 'like']"
"['personal', 'view']"
"['think', 'raised', 'united', 'leave', 'alone', 'dont', 'rip', 'away', 'united', 'criminal', 'something', 'wrong', 'get', 'sent', 'another', 'never', 'life', 'life', 'danger', 'country']"
['system']
"['system', 'waste', 'little', 'prepare', 'anyone', 'return', 'society', 'especially', 'financially', 'failure', 'without', 'money']"
"['cause', 'way', 'help', 'put', 'point', 'would', 'listen']"
['yes']
[]
"['lot', 'knowledge', 'see']"
"['need', 'new', 'president']"
"['prison', 'time', 'opportunity', 'reflect', 'read', 'self', 'educate', 'freed', 'core', 'realization', 'decline', 'inevitable', 'historical', 'event', 'politics', 'cannot', 'stop', 'even', 'strictly']"
"['well', 'used', 'believe', 'belief', 'system', 'based', 'democratic', 'perspective', 'research', 'republican']"
['somewhat']
"['seen', 'political', 'power', 'world', 'man', 'come', 'visit', 'fifteen', 'think', 'know', 'prison', 'like', 'rape', 'mistreatment', 'office', 'nothing', 'spend', 'money', 'learn', 'trade', 'get', 'help', 'need', 'simply', 'dont', 'care']"
"['conservative', 'strong', 'attitude']"
"['one', 'outside', 'busy', 'involved', 'didnt', 'get', 'really', 'sit', 'listen', 'agenda', 'time']"
"['lost', 'put', 'us', 'prison']"
"['listening', 'news']"
"['feel', 'lose']"
['family']
"['world', 'change', 'constantly']"
"['everything', 'got', 'ti', 'serve', 'time', 'done', 'make', 'money', 'state', 'helping', 'fix', 'bottom', 'line', 'corporation', 'stock', 'state', 'take', 'medical', 'company', 'charge', 'us', 'medical', 'help', 'company', 'stay', 'rate', 'charge', 'state', 'flat', 'rate', 'top', 'give', 'staff', 'spending', 'money', 'provided', 'care', 'make', 'money', 'care', 'word', 'state']"
"['time', 'think', 'think', 'would', 'best', 'country', 'whole', 'discovered', 'value', 'criminal', 'reform']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['become', 'aware', 'political', 'world', 'become', 'open', 'minded', 'certain']"
"['direction', 'desire', 'worry', 'future', 'ability', 'continue', 'living', 'planet', 'time', 'thought', 'humanity', 'whole', 'individual', 'little', 'respect', 'habitat']"
"['want', 'change', 'feel', 'like', 'important', 'apart', 'change', 'nothing', 'time', 'educate', 'stuff', 'really', 'didnt', 'even', 'matter', 'grew', 'neighborhood', 'never', 'expressed', 'stress', 'us', 'important', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'everything', 'considered', 'us']"
['didnt']
"['felon', 'feel', 'like', 'dont', 'say', 'country', 'right', 'vote', 'taken', 'away']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'trump', 'deserve', 'president', 'power']"
"['definitely', 'president', 'person', 'thats']"
[]
"['reason', 'war']"
"['become', 'aware', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['see', 'going', 'country', 'needs', 'done', 'however', 'need', 'stop', 'fighting', 'work', 'together']"
[]
"['used', 'think', 'power', 'bad', 'general', 'come', 'figure', 'thinking']"
"['seen', 'much', 'really', 'petty', 'also', 'think', 'get', 'away', 'nothing', 'electoral', 'vote', 'mandatory', 'thirty', 'house', 'due', 'extreme', 'lack', 'vote', 'way', 'anything', 'need', 'less', 'extreme', 'sided']"
"['longer', 'judge', 'worst', 'thing', 'done', 'understand', 'often', 'criminal', 'justice', 'causing', 'nominally', 'designed', 'prevent', 'easily', 'acknowledged', 'system', 'continent', 'spending', 'time', 'close', 'proximity', 'dont', 'actually', 'like', 'see', 'humanity', 'easier', 'understand', 'often', 'attribute', 'specific', 'individual', 'large', 'part', 'responsibility', 'society', 'choose', 'treat', 'mental', 'health', 'dont', 'like', 'remember', 'criminal', 'justice', 'definition', 'reactionary', 'prevention', 'longer', 'actually', 'think']"
"['cause', 'time', 'sit', 'really', 'listen', 'say', 'effect', 'us', 'prison']"
"['another', 'view', 'world', 'really', 'gone', 'albe', 'live', 'life', 'without', 'worry', 'certain', 'skin', 'color']"
"['becoming', 'sober', 'fifteen', 'ago', 'element', 'behind', 'answer']"
"['yes', 'would', 'vote', 'democrat', 'talking', 'prison', 'reform', 'dont', 'interest', 'lower', 'class', 'dont', 'seem', 'care']"
"['time', 'engage', 'politics', 'raised', 'yet', 'attention', 'gave', 'time', 'brought', 'reality', 'pettiness', 'even', 'ever', 'window', 'madness', 'keep', 'past']"
"['hard', 'find', 'solution', 'mass', 'dont', 'get', 'hand', 'view', 'system']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'political', 'yeara', 'old', 'upon', 'arrest', 'knowing', 'us', 'top', 'curious', 'formed', 'order', 'pass', 'came', 'believe', 'would', 'actually', 'gotten', 'involved', 'politics', 'high', 'white', 'house', 'material', 'congress', 'something', 'make', 'impact', 'society']"
"['yeah', 'look', 'president', 'trump', 'got', 'world']"
"['cause', 'one', 'side', 'prison', 'reform', 'pass', 'lessen', 'drug']"
"['realize', 'matter', 'vote', 'seem', 'fail', 'us', 'way', 'important', 'tend', 'make', 'us', 'seem']"
"['never', 'politics', 'realize', 'voice', 'never', 'used', 'never', 'use']"
"['look', 'bad', 'compare', 'hell', 'hole', 'modern', 'day', 'plantation', 'wouldnt', 'want', 'better', 'poor']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'see', 'need', 'fot']"
"['wish', 'could', 'voice']"
"['never', 'politics', 'untill', 'sent', 'prison']"
"['desire', 'speak', 'gain', 'understanding', 'strongly', 'wish', 'support', 'political', 'world', 'stand']"
"['willing', 'help', 'us', 'system']"
"['strong', 'republican', 'incarceration', 'sides', 'enjoy', 'contract', 'money']"
"['see', 'system', 'run', 'inside', 'dont', 'agree', 'get', 'prison', 'get', 'know', 'little', 'help', 'get', 'even', 'weve', 'time', 'crime', 'still', 'get', 'upon', 'hard', 'time', 'getting', 'living', 'good', 'life']"
"['start', 'locked', 'whole', 'life', 'old', 'man', 'look', 'different']"
['yes']
"['could', 'care', 'less', 'went', 'world', 'incarceration', 'gave', 'time', 'never', 'watched', 'news', 'thing', 'taken', 'away', 'local', 'national', 'next', 'president', 'going', 'change', 'treat', 'highly', 'doubt', 'mostly', 'negative', 'punishment', 'discipline', 'true', 'discipline', 'right', 'behavior']"
"['pay', 'close', 'attention', 'normally', 'look', 'good', 'tone']"
"['willfully', 'chosen', 'read', 'politics', 'government', 'history', 'thereof']"
"['time', 'become', 'informed', 'also', 'trying', 'make', 'world', 'better', 'place', 'anyway', 'really', 'country', 'need', 'change', 'never', 'knew', 'growing', 'government', 'terrible', 'happen', 'us', 'system', 'systematically', 'corruption', 'low', 'level', 'doc', 'various']"
"['see', 'whats', 'one', 'likely', 'even', 'fake', 'twisted', 'bias', 'politically']"
"['longer', 'mental', 'slavery']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'system', 'needs', 'graded', 'help']"
"['justice', 'world']"
"['learning', 'represent']"
"['dot', 'feel', 'voice']"
"['time', 'talk', 'politics', 'learned', 'lot', 'different', 'actually', 'going', 'country', 'help', 'change']"
"['since', 'gone', 'hill', 'fast']"
"['seen', 'hand', 'crazy', 'say', 'office', 'change', 'nothing', 'better', 'anybody', 'except', 'trump', 'done', 'anyone', 'else', 'since']"
"['pay', 'going']"
"['didnt', 'think', 'important', 'voting', 'especially', 'promote', 'wanting', 'person', 'office', 'believe', 'reform', 'judicial', 'system', 'properly', 'giving', 'certain', 'lesser', 'criminal', 'history']"
"['become', 'aware']"
"['life', 'went', 'socioeconomic', 'status', 'sex', 'offender', 'prison']"
"['becoming', 'individual', 'much', 'politics', 'group', 'call', 'reaching', 'within', 'didnt', 'fully', 'understand', 'politics', 'help']"
"['yes', 'crime', 'commit', 'even', 'judge', 'record', 'saying', 'testimony', 'proven', 'court', 'anyone', 'easily', 'see', 'given', 'yrs', 'basically', 'going', 'third', 'base', 'woman', 'lied', 'try', 'save', 'marriage', 'inks', 'rape', 'judge', 'said', 'thought', 'sentence', 'harsh', 'go', 'set', 'jury', 'retired', 'courthouse', 'case', 'several', 'public', 'defender', 'cross', 'stand', 'behind', 'trial', 'strategy', 'almost', 'unimpeachable', 'several', 'small', 'new', 'trial', 'corruption', 'justice', 'yrs', 'able', 'afford', 'real', 'lawyer', 'yes']"
"['interested', 'politics', 'never']"
"['lost', 'respect', 'system', 'reform', 'rehabilitation', 'much', 'money', 'set', 'aside', 'education', 'dont', 'continue', 'vicious', 'cycle']"
"['able', 'keep', 'lately']"
['many']
"['political', 'whether', 'republican', 'shadiness', 'either', 'party', 'really']"
['prison']
"['could', 'made', 'different']"
"['look', 'view', 'prison', 'job', 'per', 'month', 'per', 'inmate', 'would', 'help', 'keeping', 'prison', 'keeping', 'working', 'feel', 'something', 'pay', 'help', 'side', 'crime', 'would', 'go', 'like', 'bib', 'leadership', 'toast', 'help', 'plus', 'want', 'educate', 'like', 'getting', 'degree', 'cant', 'afford', 'every', 'class', 'get', 'much', 'start', 'right', 'racist', 'certain', 'let', 'able', 'chance', 'life', 'like', 'mine', 'wouldnt', 'involved', 'go', 'try', 'show', 'proof', 'finally', 'clear', 'name', 'didnt', 'want', 'address', 'court', 'prison']"
"['tend', 'see', 'much', 'right', 'change', 'wide']"
['nope']
"['love', 'trump', 'still', 'could']"
"['prone', 'believe', 'ownership', 'also', 'current', 'drug', 'incarceration', 'working', 'get', 'different', 'type', 'incarceration']"
"['also', 'consider', 'criminal', 'reform']"
"['watch', 'feel', 'voice', 'inside', 'prison', 'system', 'would', 'change', 'mind', 'us']"
"['sex', 'parole', 'registration']"
"['attention', 'politics', 'sense', 'incarceration']"
"['political', 'lean', 'conservative', 'liberal']"
['think']
"['used', 'really', 'care']"
"['knowledge', 'life', 'political', 'make', 'know', 'vote', 'voice', 'may', 'change', 'make']"
"['see', 'dont', 'belong', 'simple']"
"['said', 'yes', 'seen', 'little', 'bit', 'president', 'political', 'stuff', 'like', 'politics', 'remember', 'going', 'try', 'listen', 'politics', 'even', 'try', 'go', 'college', 'undecided', 'politics']"
['conservative']
"['yes', 'change', 'use', 'talk', 'know', 'every']"
['st']
['keep']
['conservative']
"['support', 'alo', 'sin', 'democrat']"
['comment']
"['point', 'want', 'know', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'running']"
"['lot', 'time', 'sit', 'think', 'conservative', 'crime', 'ever', 'believe', 'men', 'need', 'time']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political', 'opinion', 'strong', 'desire', 'reform', 'scrap', 'entire', 'system', 'incarceration', 'punishment', 'worse', 'went', 'replace', 'intense', 'period', 'training', 'correct', 'habit', 'behavior', 'possible', 'may', 'happen', 'thirty', 'case', 'join', 'therapeutic', 'last', 'two', 'prior', 'seeing', 'parole', 'board', 'department', 'policy', 'given', 'free', 'reign', 'create', 'plan', 'action', 'concerned', 'many', 'certainly', 'politically', 'active', 'ever']"
"['consecutive', 'lot', 'time', 'learn', 'change', 'understanding', 'adult']"
[]
['care']
"['want', 'knowing', 'never', 'study', 'get']"
"['able', 'gain', 'knowledge', 'politics', 'illusion', 'country', 'count', 'dont', 'mean', 'anything']"
"['consider', 'gun', 'libertarian', 'incarceration', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system']"
"['dont', 'think', 'opinion', 'count']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'feel', 'drug', 'get', 'sentence']"
[]
"['one', 'word', 'trump']"
"['never', 'thought', 'voting', 'really', 'didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'didnt', 'think', 'affected', 'see', 'thought']"
[]
"['see', 'much', 'differently']"
"['really', 'dont', 'know']"
"['everything', 'incarceration', 'yo', 'ill', 'upon', 'release']"
[]
"['came', 'system', 'young', 'age', 'old', 'passing']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['yes', 'much', 'informed', 'pay', 'attention', 'need', 'get', 'youth', 'educated', 'political']"
"['criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'political', 'sickness']"
"['dont', 'think', 'anyone']"
"['wasnt', 'much', 'politics', 'may', 'trump', 'era', 'political', 'side', 'general', 'population']"
"['health', 'care', 'needs', 'kill', 'unborn', 'need', 'look', 'teaching', 'weed', 'crime', 'let', 'save', 'united', 'would', 'let', 'men', 'free']"
"['use', 'even', 'care', 'politics', 'pay', 'attention', 'depending', 'office', 'big', 'effect', 'nation', 'whole']"
"['used', 'pro', 'death', 'penalty', 'also', 'educated', 'read', 'news', 'quite', 'frequently']"
"['believe', 'one', 'vote', 'concern', 'politics', 'since', 'learned', 'duty', 'citizen', 'informed', 'participate', 'democracy']"
"['incarceration', 'really', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'grown', 'prison', 'read', 'study', 'greater', 'understanding', 'effects', 'politics', 'life']"
"['see', 'prison', 'parole', 'violation', 'taken', 'serious', 'alone', 'deal', 'ignorance', 'extremely', 'dangerous', 'life']"
['really']
[]
"['believe', 'even', 'though', 'president', 'trump', 'different', 'believe', 'believe', 'done', 'black', 'ever']"
['vote']
"['used', 'believe', 'ideal', 'system', 'dont', 'think', 'government', 'involved', 'right', 'much']"
"['know', 'care']"
"['realization', 'every', 'inclination', 'reflected', 'refined', 'world', 'government', 'domain', 'choose', 'live', 'result', 'voter', 'according', 'amongst']"
[]
"['follow', 'political', 'stuff', 'often']"
"['seen', 'treat', 'system', 'dont', 'go', 'way']"
"['become', 'open', 'minded']"
[]
"['voting', 'better']"
"['insight', 'information', 'time', 'self']"
['none']
"['state', 'worry', 'federal', 'finding', 'example', 'built', 'new', 'prison', 'two', 'man', 'ten', 'cell', 'one', 'storage', 'locker', 'two']"
"['well', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'incarceration']"
"['word', 'republic', 'cant', 'see', 'going', 'change', 'time', 'soon', 'active', 'part', 'improve', 'make', 'positive', 'united']"
['know']
"['never', 'vote', 'vote', 'presidential', 'really', 'matter', 'electorial', 'college', 'system', 'state', 'local', 'vote', 'state', 'local']"
['prefer']
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political', 'pretty', 'strongly', 'believe', 'really', 'much', 'say', 'really', 'government', 'fear', 'worse', 'happening', 'agree']"
"['see', 'dont', 'know', 'anything', 'needs', 'listen', 'care', 'give', 'voice', 'something', 'bad', 'happen']"
"['seen', 'correctional', 'system', 'commodity', 'human', 'inside', 'saw', 'see', 'outside', 'world']"
"['incarceration', 'favored', 'long', 'term', 'across', 'board', 'support']"
['aware']
"['pay', 'attention', 'going', 'community', 'country']"
"['guess', 'care']"
"['use', 'think', 'would', 'democrat', 'find', 'agreeing', 'instead', 'like', 'republican', 'actually', 'help']"
[]
"['apathetic', 'towards', 'needs', 'needs', 'fortunately', 'become', 'aware', 'history', 'facing', 'today']"
"['younger', 'teenage', 'use', 'gay', 'bash', 'race', 'bash', 'little', 'filled', 'arrogance', 'free', 'extreme', 'got', 'older', 'wiser', 'sit', 'back', 'hate', 'arrogant', 'believe', 'extent', 'one', 'able', 'please', 'within', 'reason', 'dont', 'break', 'dont', 'bully', 'help', 'get', 'know', 'problem', 'voiced', 'simply', 'dont', 'hate', 'gay', 'marriage', 'one', 'biggest', 'strongly', 'younger']"
"['formed', 'nation', 'way', 'making', 'best', 'political', 'agenda']"
"['state', 'federal', 'god', 'like', 'control', 'society', 'censorship', 'art', 'control', 'read', 'watch', 'eat', 'educate', 'draw', 'create', 'write', 'look', 'learn', 'hear', 'decide', 'eat', 'let', 'us', 'cause', 'know', 'thinking', 'hearts', 'know', 'good', 'us', 'society']"
[]
"['done', 'accept', 'keep', 'mentally', 'doc', 'stand', 'department', 'stand', 'corruption', 'reform', 'rehabilitation', 'locked', 'away', 'forgotten']"
"['well', 'understand', 'ladder', 'change', 'senate', 'state', 'along', 'state', 'reps', 'come', 'agreement', 'common', 'issue', 'prison', 'reform', 'get', 'governor', 'everything', 'process']"
"['used', 'believe', 'justice', 'system', 'thinking', 'fine', 'rape', 'house', 'wasnt', 'two', 'time', 'got', 'phone', 'call', 'come', 'home', 'sat', 'county', 'jail', 'seventeen', 'simply', 'said', 'crime', 'court', 'didnt', 'anything', 'said', 'going', 'even', 'keep', 'evidence', 'proving', 'innocence', 'sight', 'court', 'even', 'two', 'day', 'da', 'even', 'admitted', 'judge', 'testimony', 'evidence', 'whole', 'investigation', 'many', 'didnt', 'want', 'disclose', 'moment', 'room', 'yet', 'prison', 'crime', 'see', 'flawed', 'corrupt', 'justice', 'system']"
[]
"['informed', 'give', 'better']"
"['public', 'growing', 'poverty', 'ways']"
"['voice', 'due', 'offender', 'status']"
"['politics', 'time', 'spend', 'solitary', 'confinement', 'politics', 'pushing', 'reform', 'help', 'want', 'better', 'person', 'help', 'men', 'see', 'lived', 'want', 'change', 'better', 'also', 'seeing', 'politics', 'affect', 'staff', 'important', 'good', 'office', 'help', 'staff', 'know', 'care', 'day', 'may', 'self', 'seen', 'hand', 'good', 'change', 'modify', 'behavior', 'think', 'less', 'willing', 'harm']"
['ken']
"['learned', 'republican', 'party', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'support', 'private', 'prison', 'industry', 'plus', 'united', 'punishment', 'pathway']"
['fairness']
"['didnt', 'seem', 'sway', 'either', 'away', 'although', 'always', 'agree', 'also', 'disagree', 'much']"
"['becoming', 'familiar', 'multiple', 'even', 'seen', 'regional', 'within', 'country', 'every', 'way', 'worry', 'would', 'otherwise', 'forefront', 'give', 'understanding', 'human', 'condition', 'understanding', 'cannot', 'help', 'influence', 'political', 'self']"
"['impeachment', 'president', 'trump']"
[]
['d_ùä_ùäo']
"['die', 'hard', 'republican', 'life', 'never', 'partisan', 'stiff', 'necked', 'close', 'minded']"
"['dont', 'care', 'little', 'man']"
"['time', 'prison', 'think', 'view', 'life', 'open', 'prison']"
"['seen', 'need', 'justice', 'reform', 'hand', 'long', 'dont', 'seem', 'fit', 'crime', 'get', 'come', 'back', 'time', 'time', 'time', 'gone', 'month', 'see', 'back', 'parole', 'violation', 'new', 'case', 'obviously', 'something', 'right']"
"['used', 'anti', 'authority', 'around', 'bottom', 'society', 'long', 'made', 'see', 'good', 'us', 'simply', 'care', 'prison', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'key', 'needs', 'reform', 'drug', 'addiction', 'needs', 'depth', 'treatment', 'voluntary', 'program', 'needs', 'available', 'everyone', 'seeking', 'treatment', 'wether', 'drug', 'related', 'drug', 'drug', 'came', 'back', 'wasnt', 'take', 'participate', 'treatment', 'know', 'simply', 'wrong', 'type', 'conviction', 'short', 'needs', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'national', 'prison', 'reform', 'indeed', 'major', 'disrepair', 'voting', 'fix']"
"['see', 'corrupt']"
"['hold', 'office']"
"['become', 'conscious', 'important', 'voice', 'come', 'human', 'education']"
['person']
"['slightly', 'education']"
"['talking', 'getting', 'going']"
[]
"['think', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'politics', 'getting', 'better', 'understanding', 'justice', 'department']"
"['firm', 'democrat', 'recently', 'become', 'independent', 'speak', 'want', 'corruptness', 'fake', 'back', 'biting', 'go', 'away', 'sad', 'one', 'side', 'side', 'corruption', 'done', 'job', 'quit', 'pointing', 'someone', 'else', 'stop', 'worrying', 'counter', 'part', 'wrong', 'supposed', 'united', 'might', 'get', 'done', 'right', 'way', 'fashion']"
"['time', 'listen', 'see']"
"['always', 'thought', 'essential', 'society', 'believe', 'punishment', 'breaking', 'dont', 'think', 'right', 'fair', 'disparity', 'continue', 'wrong', 'cause', 'everyone', 'one', 'concerned', 'prison', 'ran', 'taken', 'advantage', 'system', 'one', 'concerned', 'lack', 'release', 'need', 'date', 'willing', 'fix', 'system', 'ran', 'get', 'put']"
"['grew', 'hate', 'world', 'got', 'sick', 'way']"
"['aware', 'political']"
"['incarceration', 'liberal', 'conservative', 'left', 'swing', 'democratic', 'party', 'towards', 'socialism', 'also', 'impeachment']"
"['tend', 'pay', 'attention', 'dealing', 'justice', 'system']"
"['feel', 'informed', 'politics', 'since', 'prison']"
[]
"['lived', 'present', 'moment', 'clue', 'thought', 'felt', 'survive', 'moment', 'moment', 'realize', 'whole', 'reality', 'beyond', 'world', 'striving', 'survive', 'thrive', 'pass', 'experience', 'best', 'know', 'know', 'govern', 'legislation', 'set', 'tone', 'pace', 'create', 'bring', 'order', 'chaos', 'rule', 'law', 'law', 'king', 'law', 'enforce', 'law']"
"['news', 'media', 'spend', 'much', 'time', 'crime', 'negative', 'side', 'political', 'influence', 'looking', 'root', 'help', 'mean', 'real', 'help', 'kind', 'good', 'paper', 'prepared', 'go', 'back', 'day', 'walk', 'prison', 'locking', 'throwing', 'away', 'key', 'matter', 'done', 'answer', 'big', 'instead', 'become', 'less', 'human', 'money', 'foot', 'would', 'happy', 'talk', 'someone']"
"['yes', 'last', 'three', 'watched', 'news', 'really', 'crazy', 'many', 'hate']"
"['mostly', 'justice', 'department']"
"['right', 'vote']"
"['political', 'since', 'lead', 'prison', 'recovery', 'process', 'become', 'interested', 'country', 'faced', 'us', 'especially', 'involve', 'crime', 'punishment', 'many', 'resolved', 'anger', 'associated', 'traumatic', 'childhood', 'mant', 'times', 'sought', 'help', 'turned', 'blind', 'eye', 'psychological', 'emotional', 'lead', 'path', 'antisocial', 'behavioral', 'beaten', 'tormented', 'abusive', 'understand', 'hurting', 'hurtful', 'wanting', 'feel', 'rhe', 'pain', 'suffering', 'feel', 'inside', 'serious', 'problem', 'facing', 'country', 'innocent', 'social', 'economic', 'facing']"
"['interested', 'politics', 'affect', 'especially', 'older']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'politics', 'conflict', 'two', 'concern', 'personal', 'agenda']"
"['yes', 'say', 'pay', 'past', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'politics', 'know', 'starting', 'go', 'better', 'direction', 'border', 'security', 'mainly', 'deport', 'gang', 'illegally', 'believe', 'whole', 'lot', 'us']"
"['longer', 'right', 'opinion']"
"['see', 'justice', 'system']"
[]
"['watched', 'news', 'since']"
[]
"['see', 'upper', 'class', 'getting', 'lower', 'without', 'money']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'middle', 'political', 'talk', 'dont', 'anything', 'truly', 'create', 'better', 'society']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'affect', 'incarceration']"
"['society', 'link', 'court', 'unfortunately', 'much', 'general', 'public', 'given', 'away', 'public', 'corruption', 'fester', 'grow', 'like', 'cancer', 'quite', 'frankly', 'truly', 'appreciate', 'public', 'truly', 'trying', 'progress', 'positive', 'path']"
"['time', 'become', 'informed', 'forced', 'opinion', 'defend', 'one', 'become', 'opinion', 'stand', 'point', 'also', 'impactual', 'stand', 'point', 'change', 'seen', 'sides', 'issue', 'well', 'become', 'informed', 'side']"
"['crowded', 'nonsense', 'dont', 'get', 'better', 'good', 'time']"
"['dont', 'listen', 'state', 'dont', 'care', 'long', 'get']"
"['yes', 'un', 'fair']"
"['yes', 'injustice', 'see', 'corrupt', 'system', 'like', 'manifest', 'injustice']"
['side']
"['need', 'let', 'go', 'work', 'together', 'fight', 'common', 'ground', 'make', 'us', 'respect']"
"['political', 'longer', 'selfish', 'needs', 'needs', 'meet']"
"['would', 'change', 'handled', 'society']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'right', 'vote']"
"['put', 'office', 'prison', 'reform', 'directly', 'subject']"
[]
"['see', 'want', 'help', 'change']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going']"
['way']
"['feel', 'like', 'want', 'rather', 'reb', 'seem', 'reaching', 'blindness', 'willingly', 'take', 'well', 'lack', 'truth', 'party', 'seem', 'infected', 'ie', 'swinging', 'one', 'opinion', 'day', 'less']"
"['something', 'would', 'sad']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'understood', 'coming', 'prison']"
"['need', 'better', 'justice', 'system', 'care']"
"['becoming', 'aware', 'politics']"
['system']
"['wasnt', 'politics', 'didnt', 'much', 'affect', 'life']"
['comment']
"['see', 'country', 'needs', 'work', 'prison', 'reform', 'many', 'locked', 'simply', 'belong', 'certain', 'funds', 'prison', 'reform', 'help', 'prevent', 'coming', 'prison', 'place', 'keep', 'country', 'would', 'probably', 'save', 'millions']"
"['view', 'politics', 'strong', 'ago', 'got']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'made', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'justice', 'system', 'reform', 'education', 'minority', 'realize', 'voting', 'difference', 'need', 'political']"
"['see', 'way', 'small']"
"['see', 'positive', 'politics']"
"['concerning', 'surrounding', 'reach', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['well', 'since', 'resun', 'say', 'lot', 'us', 'say', 'ever', 'dont']"
"['yeah', 'used', 'even', 'care', 'politics', 'really', 'going', 'country']"
['ye']
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['suck', 'dick']"
"['oh', 'ya', 'find']"
"['mean', 'way', 'much', 'better', 'man', 'thats', 'take', 'man']"
['affect']
"['really', 'help', 'real', 'reform', 'help', 'back', 'society']"
"['yes', 'swept', 'rug', 'also', 'deal', 'unfair']"
"['leaving', 'country', 'like', 'sailor', 'leaves', 'sinking', 'ship']"
"['see', 'wrong', 'legal', 'politics', 'lot', 'government', 'make', 'behalf', 'across', 'country']"
"['system', 'system', 'real', 'true', 'justice', 'state', 'world']"
"['since', 'justice', 'system', 'seen', 'like', 'like', 'trash', 'system', 'nit', 'seen', 'human']"
['become']
"['think', 'opinion']"
"['hate', 'country']"
"['way', 'concerned', 'justice', 'reform']"
['aware']
"['good', 'time', 'percentage', 'time', 'low', 'raised', 'good', 'rime', 'wouldnt', 'many', 'violence', 'rate', 'right', 'mess', 'matter', 'dont', 'lose', 'much', 'time', 'opposed', 'would']"
"['watched', 'news', 'since', 'therefor', 'seen', 'trump', 'always', 'news', 'dumb', 'reason']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['always', 'republican', 'got', 'tiny', 'bit', 'also', 'got', 'month', 'sentence', 'misdemeanor', 'lewd', 'behavior', 'something', 'outside', 'high', 'time', 'ran', 'concurrent', 'got', 'probation', 'however', 'got', 'got', 'got', 'job', 'county', 'public', 'works', 'got', 'house', 'due', 'register', 'sex', 'offender', 'lost', 'job', 'due', 'public', 'opinion', 'face', 'book', 'found', 'lost', 'house', 'probation', 'officer', 'sent', 'prison', 'employment', 'cant', 'job', 'outside', 'work', 'crew', 'go', 'work', 'release', 'sex', 'offender', 'crime', 'extensive', 'criminal', 'history', 'around', 'substance', 'abuse', 'sex', 'offender', 'thing', 'unbelievable', 'ashamed', 'know', 'get', 'go', 'work', 'release', 'murder']"
"['dont', 'know', 'time']"
[]
"['become', 'interested']"
['yes']
"['apt', 'vote', 'republican', 'party', 'independent', 'party', 'two', 'apt', 'say', 'public']"
"['understand', 'important', 'vote', 'voice', 'taken', 'mistake', 'led', 'incarceration', 'lastly', 'become', 'understand', 'government', 'doesnt', 'want', 'vote', 'negate', 'feel', 'less', 'delinquent', 'still', 'arent', 'vigorous', 'wanting', 'pur', 'especially', 'corrupt', 'judicial', 'system']"
['yes']
"['every', 'body', 'frim', 'race', 'want', 'team', 'survive', 'need', 'kind', 'support', 'make', 'dont']"
"['well', 'aware', 'going']"
"['know', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['mature', 'personal', 'research', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['never', 'really', 'thought', 'politics', 'trump', 'president']"
"['never', 'thought', 'political']"
['nope']
"['state', 'much', 'per', 'prisoner', 'money']"
"['going', 'back', 'never', 'vote', 'one', 'general', 'election', 'one', 'occasion', 'criminal', 'history', 'hard', 'even', 'register', 'chance', 'going', 'back', 'question', 'one', 'system', 'every', 'little', 'thing', 'food', 'clothes', 'health', 'even', 'basic', 'entertainment', 'insight', 'outside', 'world']"
"['want', 'vote']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'want', 'help', 'turn', 'country', 'around']"
"['really', 'trying']"
"['aware', 'politics']"
"['try', 'going', 'prison']"
['yes']
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics', 'trump', 'got']"
"['learning', 'pay', 'attention', 'really', 'help', 'democrat', 'realize', 'want', 'help', 'poor', 'different', 'approach']"
"['one', 'sided', 'inexperienced']"
"['since', 'ever', 'since', 'show', 'interest', 'since', 'trump', 'office', 'impeachment', 'drastically']"
"['understand', 'thinking', 'animosity', 'whites', 'white', 'much', 'better', 'used', 'though', 'disagree']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'free', 'man', 'prison', 'world', 'world', 'really', 'care', 'put', 'prison', 'say', 'guilty', 'must', 'right', 'try', 'right', 'way', 'world', 'us', 'like', 'scum', 'earth', 'politics', 'another', 'word', 'greed', 'government', 'care', 'care', 'money', 'going', 'looking', 'like', 'world', 'talk', 'strong', 'country', 'yet', 'fake', 'waste', 'military', 'petty', 'nothing', 'us', 'still', 'would', 'fight', 'family', 'ever', 'given', 'chance', 'many', 'love', 'get', 'back', 'fighting', 'army', 'send', 'us', 'instead', 'like', 'us', 'like', 'give']"
[]
"['incarceration', 'able', 'view', 'world', 'objectively']"
"['use', 'lean', 'towards', 'democratic', 'party', 'liberal', 'lenient', 'crime']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['old', 'uneducated', 'street', 'didnt', 'even', 'political', 'came', 'prison', 'say', 'yes', 'actually', 'political', 'president', 'trump', 'racist', 'politician', 'yes', 'political', 'apart', 'political', 'party', 'working', 'republican', 'party', 'working', 'anything', 'anyone', 'agree', 'street', 'career', 'get', 'streets', 'help', 'us', 'prosper', 'college', 'ill', 'become', 'social', 'worker', 'even', 'though', 'vote', 'doesnt', 'matter', 'trump', 'president']"
"['able', 'study', 'political']"
"['gor', 'better', 'towards']"
"['see', 'older']"
"['time', 'stay', 'abreast', 'current', 'learn', 'understand', 'free', 'world', 'hence', 'based', 'upon', 'greater', 'understanding', 'really']"
[]
"['number', 'one']"
"['believe', 'us', 'stop', 'killing', 'unite', 'take', 'land', 'back', 'united', 'take', 'crooked', 'greedy', 'government', 'destroy', 'thats', 'dream', 'mine', 'though', 'never', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'need', 'office', 'make', 'system', 'help', 'us', 'keep', 'us']"
"['see', 'truth', 'grew', 'since', 'used', 'care', 'politics', 'never', 'knew', 'understood', 'meaning', 'know', 'many', 'system', 'young', 'know', 'cause', 'come', 'forgotten', 'come', 'point', 'time', 'see', 'care', 'want', 'help', 'matter', 'matter', 'society', 'elect', 'power', 'ever', 'make', 'want', 'fully', 'incarceration', 'vote', 'half', 'like', 'oh', 'nice', 'broke', 'law', 'truth', 'also', 'want', 'help', 'better', 'help', 'society', 'become', 'better']"
"['see', 'immediate', 'need', 'reform', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'entire']"
"['child', 'fan', 'came', 'prison', 'learned', 'damage', 'poor', 'ability', 'access', 'public', 'blinded', 'trial']"
"['never', 'see', 'come', 'need']"
"['came', 'prison', 'interest', 'anything', 'stupidity', 'lived', 'prison', 'see', 'public', 'really', 'aware', 'ignorance', 'case', 'prisoner', 'bliss']"
"['world', 'upper', 'class', 'talk', 'lower', 'poor', 'dont', 'happen', 'go', 'threw', 'hell', 'make', 'made', 'easier', 'upper', 'class', 'dont', 'live', 'work', 'urban']"
"['since', 'registered', 'vote', 'got', 'card', 'week', 'never', 'really', 'interested', 'politics', 'made', 'realize', 'government', 'decide', 'actually', 'effect', 'us', 'power', 'decide', 'goes', 'whether', 'state', 'federal', 'havent', 'really', 'chance', 'look', 'far', 'politics', 'limited', 'given', 'opportunity', 'would', 'involve']"
"['like', 'intensity', 'drug']"
"['since', 'locked', 'fear', 'lost', 'politics']"
['yes']
"['concerned', 'state', 'worried', 'matter', 'office', 'theyre', 'going', 'screw', 'us', 'level', 'achieve', 'agenda']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'whereas', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['political', 'knowledge', 'wisdom', 'increase', 'wether', 'incarceration', 'made', 'feel', 'think', 'politically', 'active', 'voice', 'many', 'like', 'think', 'generation', 'really', 'ball', 'taking', 'part', 'government', 'made', 'skewed']"
"['yes', 'lot']"
"['interested', 'whats', 'happening', 'whats', 'going', 'happen', 'ever']"
"['didnt', 'faith', 'finally', 'trump', 'actually', 'standing', 'everything', 'said', 'would', 'like', 'un', 'afraid', 'speak', 'working', 'country', 'also', 'take', 'initiative', 'something']"
"['feel', 'like', 'arent', 'right', 'right', 'vote', 'maybe', 'could', 'help', 'change']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['hate', 'ever', 'comes']"
"['prison', 'shown', 'extreme', 'need', 'prison', 'reform', 'way', 'accomplish', 'change', 'informed']"
"['believe', 'actually', 'st', 'hand', 'living', 'streets', 'actually', 'like', 'go']"
"['used', 'hate', 'politics', 'equally', 'flagrant', 'hypocrisy', 'come', 'hate', 'preach', 'tolerance', 'time', 'aggressively', 'attack', 'represent', 'contrary', 'also', 'sending', 'bad', 'mixed', 'telling', 'bullying', 'wrong', 'relentlessly', 'president', 'sometimes', 'family']"
"['seeing', 'always', 'cover', 'investigate', 'state', 'fired', 'heat', 'come', 'back', 'leave', 'even', 'come', 'back', 'make', 'time']"
['cause']
"['waisted', 'rehabilitation', 'time', 'much', 'else']"
"['real', 'dealt']"
"['want', 'know', 'whats', 'going', 'politically']"
"['become', 'conservative']"
"['politics', 'closely']"
"['made', 'aware', 'new', 'made', 'judicial', 'branch', 'also', 'take', 'good', 'look', 'important', 'citizen', 'whats', 'wrong', 'society', 'whole', 'also', 'need', 'make', 'change', 'change', 'environment', 'around']"
"['hard', 'question', 'would', 'say', 'yes', 'trump', 'done', 'past', 'couple', 'taught', 'us', 'like', 'unemployment', 'rate', 'take', 'international', 'effort', 'keep', 'improving', 'unemployment', 'rate']"
"['yes', 'see', 'injustice', 'go', 'threw', 'feel', 'one', 'nothing', 'thats', 'reason', 'big', 'follower', 'wright', 'team', 'prison', 'legal', 'news', 'newspaper', 'get']"
[]
"['well', 'everyone', 'mind', 'time', 'time']"
"['part', 'future', 'right', 'vote']"
[]
"['well', 'seen', 'bad', 'side', 'poverty', 'child', 'one', 'doesnt', 'really', 'help', 'trying', 'go', 'half', 'way', 'house', 'drug', 'free', 'home', 'cant', 'even', 'get', 'help']"
['interested']
['older']
"['trusting', 'thing', 'said']"
"['time', 'actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'know', 'every', 'vote', 'difference']"
"['seen', 'shouldnt', 'prison', 'believe', 'needs', 'reform']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'interested', 'political', 'agenda', 'realize', 'politics', 'impact', 'life', 'better', 'worse']"
['money']
"['see', 'racial', 'get', 'lowly', 'race']"
[]
"['pay', 'work']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'came', 'prison']"
"['see', 'actually', 'thought']"
"['feel', 'like', 'prison', 'dont', 'matter']"
"['system', 'private', 'interest', 'acknowledge', 'real', 'lie', 'fail', 'actually', 'help', 'us', 'post', 'release', 'violation', 'th', 'felon', 'never', 'chance', 'challenge', 'parole', 'contract']"
"['watch', 'whats', 'happening', 'world', 'since']"
"['want', 'know', 'whats', 'going', 'politics']"
['infighting']
"['time', 'aegis', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'certain', 'often', 'political', 'since', 'old', 'enough', 'interested', 'politics', 'theres', 'nothing', 'like', 'hand', 'experience', 'make', 'understand', 'certain', 'view', 'point', 'clarify', 'united', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'turmoil', 'many', 'harmless', 'drug', 'related', 'need', 'help', 'incarceration', 'jail', 'prison', 'time', 'stop', 'hardly', 'ever', 'deter', 'recurrent', 'drug', 'use', 'associated', 'prison', 'system', 'overflowing', 'drug', 'whose', 'time', 'prison', 'actually', 'make', 'worse', 'exposure', 'oft', 'times', 'world', 'likely', 'become', 'well', 'new', 'drug', 'use', 'related', 'brutal', 'cycle', 'horrible', 'tra']"
"['tend', 'see', 'whats', 'really', 'going', 'world', 'ever']"
['good']
"['lost', 'right', 'vote', 'mixed', 'right', 'back']"
"['politically', 'minded', 'life', 'going', 'waste', 'time', 'stress', 'energy']"
"['seen', 'unfair', 'crap', 'justice', 'system']"
"['say', 'dont', 'count', 'thats', 'way', 'side', 'prison', 'want', 'saying', 'anything', 'voting', 'anything', 'goes', 'outside', 'world']"
"['view', 'world', 'know', 'like', 'side']"
"['cant', 'vote', 'doesnt', 'pertain', 'right', 'dont']"
['nope_ùä']
['value']
"['need', 'drug']"
"['state', 'allow', 'vote', 'probation']"
"['grew', 'democrat', 'lean', 'toward', 'republican']"
"['see', 'life', 'whole', 'new', 'perspective']"
"['never', 'justice', 'system']"
"['feel', 'grid', 'chart', 'way', 'extensive', 'feel', 'punishment', 'case', 'case', 'bias', 'cut', 'population', 'trouble', 'simply', 'made', 'mistake']"
['comment']
"['yes', 'manny', 'child']"
"['make', 'realize']"
"['doesnt', 'matter']"
"['cant', 'time']"
"['charge', 'given']"
"['born', 'entire', 'life', 'view', 'consider', 'good', 'evil', 'entire', 'political', 'interest', 'half', 'nation', 'basically']"
['think']
"['view', 'wanting', 'someone', 'respect', 'common', 'rather', 'power', 'fear']"
"['petty', 'got', 'woman', 'prison', 'even', 'money', 'racket', 'political', 'sickening', 'wrong', 'state', 'used', 'claim', 'home', 'state', 'born', 'raised']"
"['understand', 'important', 'person']"
"['well', 'wasnt', 'politics', 'interested']"
['nothing']
['yes']
"['see', 'getting', 'less', 'less', 'time', 'drug', 'get', 'saying', 'one', 'crime', 'worse', 'another', 'maybe']"
"['crying', 'trump']"
"['drug', 'reform']"
['change']
"['dont', 'care']"
"['life', 'corse', 'time', 'politics', 'suffering', 'went', 'one', 'profit', 'wile', 'time', 'facade', 'made', 'thirst', 'change', 'mother', 'prison', 'father', 'daughter', 'prison', 'system', 'whole', 'almost', 'positive']"
"['seventeen', 'came', 'prison', 'never', 'political', 'standing', 'coming', 'involved', 'politics', 'country', 'date', 'outside', 'world']"
"['need', 'help', 'felon']"
"['see', 'work']"
"['dont', 'believe', 'hope', 'government', 'revolution', 'answer']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['try', 'let', 'pave', 'road', 'try', 'remain', 'humble', 'true', 'treating', 'everyone']"
"['essay', 'made', 'realize', 'dont', 'really', 'know', 'much', 'politics', 'want', 'really', 'start', 'looking', 'april']"
"['believe', 'need', 'something', 'done', 'get', 'time', 'get', 'murdering', 'someone']"
['um']
"['yes', 'state', 'lost', 'rehabilitation', 'side', 'become', 'warehouse', 'staff']"
"['since', 'learned', 'except', 'truth', 'truth', 'like', 'often', 'blame', 'government', 'political', 'constitution', 'forth', 'learn', 'ignorant', 'choice', 'force', 'wish', 'illuminate', 'warn', 'self', 'educate']"
"['open', 'minded', 'still', 'bit', 'although']"
"['took', 'nonchalant', 'stance', 'politics', 'reading', 'news', 'everyday', 'given', 'chance', 'look', 'country', 'headed', 'made', 'country']"
"['become', 'racist']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'detail', 'regarding', 'politics']"
"['used', 'politically', 'persuaded', 'interested', 'either', 'way', 'since', 'world', 'service', 'political']"
['always']
"['young', 'man', 'coming', 'system', 'concern', 'politics', 'dos', 'life', 'since', 'coming', 'prison', 'taking', 'notice', 'economical', 'statistics', 'worldly', 'fellow']"
['need']
"['interested', 'person', 'incarceration']"
"['dont', 'look']"
"['incarceration', 'moral', 'compass', 'conscience', 'seared', 'conscience', 'morality']"
"['prison', 'verbally', 'abusive', 'nobody', 'prison']"
"['used', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'watching', 'learning', 'trump']"
"['see', 'view']"
"['incarceration', 'let', 'see', 'experience', 'level', 'money', 'going', 'oh', 'way', 'cannot', 'vote', 'presidency', 'felony', 'answer', 'question', 'prior', 'last', 'essay', 'question']"
"['dont', 'believe', 'matter']"
['change']
[]
"['think', 'scum', 'earth']"
"['use', 'think', 'matter', 'know', 'dont']"
"['difficult', 'explain']"
"['thats', 'know', 'go', 'lake', 'full']"
"['see', 'point', 'view', 'little', 'better']"
"['one', 'trying', 'help', 'us', 'go', 'school', 'college', 'want', 'make', 'money', 'want', 'set', 'get', 'thats', 'always', 'option', 'want', 'change', 'life', 'apart', 'make', 'almost', 'impossible', 'lost']"
['peace']
"['kind', 'hard', 'explain', 'decision', 'sure']"
"['see', 'bad', 'penal']"
"['become', 'aware', 'politics', 'since', 'becoming']"
['totally']
[]
"['every', 'one', 'able', 'vote', 'jail', 'prison']"
"['could', 'help']"
['trump']
[]
"['watching', 'trump', 'get']"
['voice']
"['scam', 'dont', 'matter', 'vote', 'trump', 'way', 'even', 'know', 'scam']"
"['society', 'could', 'afford', 'proper', 'representation']"
['need']
"['feel', 'need', 'take', 'better', 'grasp', 'hand', 'country', 'may', 'play', 'role', 'making', 'better']"
"['yes', 'course', 'slightly', 'highly', 'believe', 'even', 'whenever', 'something', 'comes', 'desk', 'concerning', 'quickly', 'handled', 'keep', 'us', 'long', 'possible', 'money', 'matter', 'look', 'take', 'example', 'biggest', 'problem', 'today', 'fact', 'one', 'attention', 'surrounding', 'case', 'minister', 'visiting', 'house', 'speak', 'given', 'working', 'house', 'well', 'door', 'got', 'house', 'property', 'rent', 'lease', 'agreement', 'residence', 'still', 'found', 'going', 'jail', 'sentence', 'think', 'felt', 'guy', 'doesnt']"
"['yes', 'think', 'inmate', 'important']"
"['since', 'gotten', 'older', 'different']"
"['made', 'want', 'get', 'politics']"
"['motivation', 'even', 'participate', 'politics', 'try', 'listen', 'much', 'political', 'news', 'possible', 'change', 'department', 'better', 'met', 'past', 'lost', 'whole', 'prison', 'live', 'prison', 'ask', 'made', 'want', 'change', 'answer', 'simple', 'prison', 'system', 'didnt', 'streets', 'many', 'make', 'department', 'helping', 'change', 'better', 'job', 'classes', 'better', 'reward', 'system']"
"['see', 'live']"
"['pay', 'closer', 'attention', 'news']"
[]
[]
['understanding']
"['trying', 'change']"
"['need', 'fix']"
['need']
"['yes', 'see', 'trump', 'bad', 'man']"
"['see', 'world', 'different', 'place', 'tine', 'think']"
"['see', 'stuff', 'happen', 'within']"
['bother']
[]
"['since', 'whole', 'adult', 'life', 'petty', 'drug', 'offender', 'besides', 'made', 'bitter', 'towards', 'politics', 'general', 'led', 'little', 'faith', 'country', 'general']"
"['watching', 'trump']"
"['think', 'leniency', 'domestic', 'violence', 'situation', 'relationship', 'believing', 'abuser', 'instead', 'also', 'think', 'drug']"
"['dont', 'see', 'behind']"
"['want', 'involved', 'even', 'tho', 'cant', 'felon']"
"['often', 'done', 'survive', 'poverty', 'stricken', 'although', 'breaking', 'taught', 'school', 'along', 'history', 'math', 'science', 'maybe', 'would', 'know', 'better', 'break', 'law', 'would', 'known', 'life', 'would', 'hard', 'job', 'skill', 'level', 'would', 'poor', 'well', 'work', 'history', 'portfolio', 'would', 'never', 'gotten', 'trouble', 'criminal', 'history', 'difficult', 'take', 'seriously', 'many', 'mentally', 'emotionally', 'due', 'fact', 'felon', 'even', 'housing', 'feel', 'locking', 'always', 'answer', 'serving', 'debt', 'society', 'well', 'life', 'near', 'hard', 'social', 'status', 'fact', 'money', 'feel']"
"['year', 'army', 'veteran', 'legislation', 'pretty', 'strongly', 'see', 'severe', 'injustice', 'social', 'classes', 'werent', 'handed', 'write', 'legislation', 'handed', 'affecting', 'writing', 'passing', 'reality', 'could', 'never', 'understand', 'condemning', 'good', 'life', 'hell', 'never', 'understand', 'struggle', 'one', 'thing', 'fight', 'particular', 'job', 'social', 'status', 'another', 'thing', 'fight', 'food', 'shelter', 'sometimes', 'life', 'direct', 'commission', 'legislation', 'shouldnt', 'able', 'affect', 'know']"
"['think', 'right', 'vote', 'even', 'though', 'like', 'freedom', 'speech']"
['think']
"['different', 'think', 'look', 'everything', 'major', 'crime', 'severity', 'crime', 'past', 'along', 'present', 'one', 'treating', 'way', 'matter']"
"['would', 'give', 'perceptive']"
"['vote', 'get']"
"['cant', 'explain']"
['government']
[]
['nasty']
"['cause', 'theres', 'dont', 'thats', 'locked', 'done', 'long', 'time', 'ago']"
"['become', 'ever', 'get', 'want', 'good', 'like', 'time', 'time', 'vote', 'save', 'spotted', 'owl', 'save', 'didnt', 'read', 'fine', 'print', 'voting', 'save', 'animal', 'also', 'good', 'like', 'going', 'want', 'anyway', 'vote', 'need', 'slate', 'back', 'start', 'ask']"
[]
"['upset', 'able', 'get', 'help', 'really', 'need', 'want']"
"['law', 'enforcement', 'spend', 'sanction', 'jail', 'aloud', 'decide', 'enforce', 'law']"
"['end', 'needs', 'come', 'corruption', 'system']"
"['gotten', 'older', 'follow', 'little', 'younger', 'dont', 'much']"
"['want', 'country', 'get', 'right', 'president']"
"['learned', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'less', 'interested', 'politics', 'little', 'attention', 'since', 'watch', 'read', 'news', 'often', 'know', 'politics']"
"['time', 'study', 'political', 'office']"
"['dont', 'get', 'right', 'study']"
"['feel', 'could', 'vote', 'would', 'impact', 'way', 'certain', 'government', 'would']"
['know']
"['see', 'housing', 'effects']"
"['become', 'interested', 'political', 'world']"
"['effect', 'community']"
"['realize', 'nothing', 'money', 'stuff']"
"['aware', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'doesnt', 'help', 'profit', 'plus', 'example', 'even', 'republican', 'wrong', 'cause', 'republican', 'dont', 'vote', 'democrat', 'happen', 'wrong', 'wrong', 'dont', 'care', 'side', 'load', 'crap']"
['see']
"['want', 'fight', 'justice', 'reform']"
['joke']
[]
"['picked', 'answer']"
['profit']
[]
"['yes', 'vote', 'arrest', 'incarceration', 'ago', 'education', 'shape', 'political']"
"['yes', 'definitely', 'become', 'versed', 'politics', 'law', 'social', 'consciousness', 'attentive', 'government', 'public']"
['times']
"['outlook', 'like', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'marijuana', 'minimum', 'wage', 'seen', 'better', 'understanding', 'affect', 'lower', 'income']"
"['see', 'differently', 'ho']"
"['since', 'age', 'political', 'view', 'point']"
"['able', 'vote', 'felon']"
"['learned', 'hate', 'equally']"
"['time', 'watch', 'learn', 'new', 'ways', 'country', 'sober']"
"['strongly', 'support', 'republican', 'party']"
['true']
"['yes', 'time', 'head', 'head', 'clean', 'time', 'follow']"
"['never', 'really', 'political', 'view', 'till', 'came', 'prison', 'pay']"
"['even', 'though', 'serving', 'sentence', 'crime', 'still', 'considered', 'felon', 'get', 'prison', 'pariah', 'public', 'stripped', 'away', 'even', 'though']"
"['belive', 'judicial', 'system', 'needs', 'seriously']"
[]
"['good', 'going', 'away', 'long', 'time', 'able', 'earn', 'way', 'home']"
"['money', 'used', 'fund', 'prison']"
"['last', 'incarceration', 'monastic', 'experience', 'come', 'see', 'turned', 'capitalism', 'also', 'come', 'see', 'individualistic', 'culture', 'like', 'justify', 'suffering', 'blaming', 'hunger', 'poverty', 'character', 'flaw', 'biological', 'instead', 'social', 'political', 'economic', 'trap', 'poverty', 'become', 'politically', 'engaged', 'view', 'politics', 'taken', 'radical', 'revolutionary', 'form']"
"['sex', 'offender', 'need']"
"['sex', 'fit']"
"['want', 'elect', 'understand', 'want', 'job', 'criteria', 'disabled', 'still', 'productive', 'member', 'society', 'make', 'positive', 'community']"
"['yes', 'making', 'time', 'harder']"
"['deal', 'prison', 'politics', 'day', 'long', 'go', 'belive', 'put', 'trump', 'office', 'id', 'heart', 'beat', 'need', 'leave', 'man', 'job', 'stop', 'trying', 'bring', 'fictional']"
"['since', 'education', 'found', 'intereat', 'humanity', 'feel', 'progressive', 'human']"
"['news', 'show', 'care', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['prisoner', 'see', 'change', 'time', 'said', 'important', 'see', 'person', 'worth', 'done', 'done', 'since', 'beginning', 'man', 'always', 'make', 'whole', 'must', 'come', 'together', 'help', 'one', 'another', 'instead', 'hate', 'extensive', 'must', 'support', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['involved', 'process', 'say', 'right', 'thing', 'right']"
"['used', 'independent', 'even', 'though', 'less', 'towards', 'prison', 'reform', 'feel', 'align', 'republican', 'party']"
"['un', 'la', 'para', 'la', 'solo', 'si', 'el', 'para', 'el', 'pueblo', 'naciì_n']"
"['never', 'recognize', 'importance']"
"['seen', 'reality', 'system', 'narrow', 'detrimental', 'safety', 'society']"
"['got', 'lockup', 'incident', 'could', 'gone', 'way', 'low', 'level', 'street', 'dealer', 'absolutely', 'education', 'read', 'write', 'politics', 'far', 'mind', 'time', 'thinking', 'feeding', 'family', 'friend', 'told', 'put', 'pride', 'ego', 'learn', 'read', 'write', 'point', 'set', 'back', 'look', 'life', 'life', 'took', 'turn', 'best', 'realize', 'everything', 'one', 'effects', 'around', 'got', 'law', 'realize', 'one', 'cant', 'citizen', 'one', 'doesnt', 'know', 'law', 'know', 'know', 'law', 'dont', 'believe', 'would', 'situation', 'one', 'right', 'bear', 'also', 'duty', 'retreat', 'many', 'know', 'obligation', 'society', 'duty', 'study', 'law', 'lead', 'politics', 'study', 'politics', 'grown', 'political', 'view']"
"['prior', 'didnt', 'really', 'political', 'born', 'generation', 'grew', 'nuclear', 'bomb', 'russia', 'nam', 'even', 'though', 'away', 'draft', 'go', 'somewhere', 'fight', 'country', 'father', 'marine', 'fought', 'grand', 'father', 'side', 'poncho', 'villa', 'around', 'border', 'grand', 'father', 'side', 'sons', 'fought', 'maybe', 'remember', 'told', 'mustard', 'gas', 'nasty', 'stuff']"
"['talk', 'much']"
"['yes', 'prison', 'crime', 'got', 'instead', 'getting', 'help', 'mental', 'health', 'prison', 'place', 'need', 'give', 'help', 'drug', 'sober', 'almost', 'happy']"
"['sex', 'offender', 'public', 'forget', 'human', 'making', 'impossible', 'back', 'society']"
"['well', 'plenty', 'time', 'stay', 'tuned', 'goes', 'country', 'watching', 'world', 'news', 'fox', 'news', 'discovered', 'crazy', 'politics', 'really', 'seem', 'thing', 'need', 'desire', 'real', 'eye', 'opener', 'one', 'way', 'think', 'everyone', 'embrace', 'vacation', 'world', 'stress', 'society', 'general']"
[]
['care']
"['think', 'made', 'trump', 'president', 'united']"
"['articulable', 'politic']"
"['would', 'much', 'result', 'incarceration', 'personal', 'transformation', 'place', 'therein', 'discovered', 'identity', 'begun', 'view', 'world', 'perspective', 'able', 'better', 'serve', 'capacity', 'greater']"
"['open', 'minded']"
"['yes', 'see', 'color', 'compare', 'white', 'prison', 'outside', 'well']"
"['certain', 'refuse', 'look', 'real', 'hand', 'allow', 'reformed']"
"['incarceration', 'politics', 'care', 'direction', 'country', 'moving', 'facing', 'college', 'education', 'enlightened', 'facing', 'country', 'impact']"
"['fact', 'met', 'really', 'good', 'made', 'life', 'believe', 'second', 'chance', 'life', 'political', 'need', 'spoken']"
"['involved', 'politics', 'ever', 'see', 'turmoil', 'country', 'want', 'keep', 'times', 'order', 'trying', 'incorporate', 'politically', 'driven']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'little', 'bit', 'didnt']"
['none']
"['twenty', 'ago', 'felt', 'opinion', 'didnt', 'matter', 'party', 'didnt', 'understand', 'amongst', 'since', 'learned', 'share', 'republican', 'party', 'look', 'legislative', 'worked', 'retirement', 'need', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'since', 'locked', 'everything', 'change']"
"['view', 'government', 'dramatically', 'particularly', 'respect', 'prison', 'health', 'care', 'food', 'service']"
"['social', 'justice', 'social', 'change']"
"['become', 'conscious', 'dynamics', 'politics']"
['good']
"['watch', 'news']"
['impact']
"['way', 'country', 'run']"
"['great', 'deal', 'taken', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'fear', 'upon', 'last', 'fifty', 'due', 'addiction', 'rate', 'society', 'taken', 'control', 'social', 'structure']"
['aware']
"['honestly', 'right', 'high', 'school', 'didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'starting', 'see', 'system']"
"['made', 'realize', 'corrupt', 'system']"
"['consideration', 'towards', 'prison', 'human']"
"['negative', 'bias', 'constant', 'reaction', 'really', 'sad', 'fear', 'causing', 'anti', 'patriotism', 'country', 'really', 'due', 'incarceration']"
[]
[]
[]
"['see', 'aware', 'whats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'know', 'trying', 'change', 'prison', 'system']"
['rime']
"['hard', 'time', 'understanding', 'prison', 'less', 'citizen', 'unable', 'vote', 'like', 'citizen', 'less', 'person', 'made']"
"['looking', 'one', 'care']"
"['seeing', 'hearing', 'want', 'vote', 'try', 'get', 'better', 'stop', 'corruption', 'fair', 'honest', 'legal', 'system']"
"['political', 'since', 'experience', 'justice', 'open', 'deeply', 'set', 'lack', 'government']"
"['less', 'traditionalist', 'versed', 'civil', 'criminal', 'constitutional', 'law', 'reading', 'thus', 'grown', 'informed']"
"['harder', 'view', 'election', 'incarceration']"
"['gave', 'light', 'understanding', 'politics']"
"['watch', 'unfold', 'clearly', 'prison', 'busy', 'working', 'streets']"
"['sometimes', 'dont', 'understand', 'run', 'way']"
['care']
[]
[]
['racial']
"['ware', 'house', 'told', 'self', 'lied', 'lost', 'hope', 'want', 'chance', 'life', 'learned', 'great', 'deal', 'sorry', 'one', 'chance']"
"['thought', 'drop', 'ball', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['never', 'really', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['never', 'used', 'care', 'much', 'git', 'directly', 'racism', 'system']"
"['stringent', 'less', 'variable']"
"['president', 'impeachment', 'president', 'bush', 'compassionate', 'conservatism', 'support', 'present', 'bush', 'took', 'war', 'false', 'president', 'however', 'policy', 'support', 'president', 'trump']"
['prison']
[]
"['never', 'see', 'system']"
"['need', 'working', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'think', 'party', 'use', 'support', 'democratic', 'party', 'incarceration']"
"['came', 'prison', 'follow', 'care', 'politics', 'part', 'life', 'care', 'politician', 'say', 'affect', 'nation']"
[]
"['gave', 'time', 'stop', 'see', 'going', 'world']"
"['try', 'get', 'involved', 'politics', 'religion', 'prison']"
"['well', 'give', 'time', 'see', 'news', 'see', 'better', 'talking']"
['none']
"['dont', 'agree']"
"['yes', 'wrong', 'way']"
"['yes', 'see', 'sides', 'nation']"
[]
"['family', 'republican', 'coming', 'prison', 'republican', 'coming', 'prison', 'taking', 'college', 'seeing', 'world', 'differently', 'combined', 'experience', 'voting', 'democrat', 'even', 'though', 'democrat', 'responsible', 'crime', 'ended', 'federal', 'pell', 'grant', 'program', 'guess', 'would', 'come', 'around', 'see', 'folly', 'war', 'tough', 'crime']"
"['hate', 'politics']"
"['time', 'look']"
"['idea', 'importance', 'politics', 'sence', 'justice', 'wrong', 'true', 'true', 'political', 'position', 'needs', 'look', 'rate', 'incarceration', 'rate', 'crime', 'order']"
"['treat', 'sex', 'like', 'least', 'likely', 'reoffend', 'crime']"
"['need', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['would', 'vote', 'would', 'especially', 'concerning', 'prison', 'reform', 'inmate', 'parole', 'release']"
[]
"['informed', 'ever']"
[]
"['used', 'capital', 'punishment', 'came', 'prison', 'truly', 'innocent']"
[]
"['interest', 'whatsoever', 'politics', 'month', 'subsequently', 'prison', 'foster', 'child', 'merely', 'suppress', 'getting', 'point', 'life', 'make', 'significant', 'life', 'personnel']"
"['conservative', 'take', 'account', 'social', 'justice', 'prison', 'reform', 'see', 'need', 'change', 'oblivious', 'justice', 'today']"
"['understand', 'today', 'pay', 'streets']"
"['dont', 'anything', 'without', 'money', 'help', 'rehabilitate', 'would', 'care', 'president']"
[]
"['focus', 'someone', 'trying', 'get']"
"['like', 'money', 'sign']"
"['never', 'really', 'since', 'never', 'watch', 'happening', 'country', 'corrupt', 'lying', 'breaking', 'stealing', 'money', 'wasting', 'bogus', 'impeachment', 'longer', 'stand', 'stop', 'deserve', 'better', 'better']"
"['used', 'believe', 'country', 'stood', 'however', 'since', 'becoming', 'involved', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'seeing', 'crooked', 'corrupt', 'starting', 'change', 'dramatically', 'change', 'needs', 'come']"
"['grown', 'whole', 'life', 'taught', 'work', 'since', 'turned', 'hearing', 'stopped', 'listening', 'agenda', 'tearing', 'country', 'apart', 'sure', 'see', 'know', 'right', 'thing', 'much', 'hate', 'distain', 'current', 'gone', 'deep', 'could', 'realize', 'see', 'worked', 'country', 'world', 'would', 'better']"
"['made', 'open', 'around', 'corruption', 'political', 'system']"
"['republican', 'party', 'government', 'country', 'whole', 'younger', 'raise', 'hell', 'get', 'high', 'leniency', 'along', 'democrat', 'party', 'learned', 'country', 'run', 'smoothly', 'everyone', 'need', 'enforced', 'need', 'get', 'educated', 'work', 'need', 'manage', 'spending', 'better', 'need', 'small', 'low', 'strong', 'military', 'republican', 'agree', 'dont', 'really', 'government', 'civil', 'dont', 'really', 'stand', 'anything']"
"['shown', 'extreme', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['didnt', 'think', 'much', 'high', 'prison', 'rate', 'talk', 'reform', 'till', 'state', 'given', 'life', 'sentence', 'time', 'offender', 'system', 'seeing', 'given', 'second', 'chance', 'state', 'strongly', 'believe', 'change', 'chance', 'say', 'parole', 'prison', 'system', 'never', 'thought', 'thought', 'would', 'never', 'inmate']"
"['conservative', 'someone', 'never', 'wrong', 'side', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'quote', 'well', 'recall', 'dont', 'know', 'said']"
"['know', 'prison', 'industrial', 'complex']"
['yes']
['news']
['none']
"['went', 'republican', 'independent']"
"['didnt', 'even', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'talking', 'watching', 'interest']"
"['yes', 'use', 'democrat', 'however', 'prison', 'time', 'study', 'zero', 'talk', 'good', 'game', 'make', 'huge', 'never', 'meet', 'opinion', 'get', 'dirty', 'get', 'accomplished', 'said', 'would', 'justice', 'reform', 'even', 'said', 'priority', 'never', 'everything', 'said', 'would', 'past', 'still', 'manage', 'work', 'ongoing', 'distraction', 'going', 'investigation', 'every', 'day', 'speak', 'think', 'republican', 'party', 'think', 'action', 'think', 'think', 'nothing']"
"['dont', 'care']"
"['since', 'paying', 'attention', 'since', 'cant', 'vote', 'public']"
"['dont', 'give']"
"['feel', 'like', 'trump', 'racist']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['got', 'actually', 'time', 'learn', 'political']"
[]
"['hate', 'law']"
"['see', 'would', 'like', 'whoever', 'president', 'really', 'understand', 'realize', 'never', 'happen']"
"['yes', 'beforehand', 'didnt', 'political']"
"['criminal', 'chasing', 'money', 'hedonistic', 'master', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'outside', 'sphere', 'payong', 'attention', 'world', 'around', 'ago']"
"['arrest', 'rarely', 'ever', 'thought', 'formerly', 'especially', 'sex', 'important', 'part', 'political', 'given', 'opportunity', 'move', 'beyond', 'past', 'shouldnt', 'rest']"
"['aware', 'system', 'works', 'youve', 'truly', 'cant', 'grasp', 'situation', 'hand']"
"['since', 'becoming', 'made', 'decision', 'become', 'stay', 'law', 'citizen', 'relationship', 'take', 'godly', 'stand']"
"['majority', 'dont', 'even', 'didnt', 'care', 'understand', 'call', 'stuck', 'stupid', 'lack', 'see', 'life', 'different', 'proper', 'way', 'fight', 'back', 'ballot', 'simple', 'vote', 'right', 'direction', 'see', 'go']"
"['informed', 'since', 'become', 'aware', 'attentive']"
"['see', 'harshly']"
['yes']
"['always', 'pro', 'democrat', 'even', 'though', 'democrat', 'used', 'like', 'lie', 'right', 'looking', 'us', 'like', 'care', 'power', 'need', 'stand', 'like', 'trump', 'seem', 'like', 'dont', 'know', 'next']"
"['time', 'prison', 'reflect', 'reach', 'actual', 'fact', 'little', 'formation', 'never', 'political', 'little', 'impact', 'time', 'interest', 'mostly', 'social', 'nature', 'politics', 'drive', 'popular', 'opinion', 'politics', 'shape', 'music', 'culture', 'interact', 'various', 'multiple', 'like', 'keep', 'finger', 'pulse', 'shifting', 'politics', 'today', 'seem', 'drive', 'social', 'change', 'past', 'believe', 'believe', 'never', 'gave', 'much', 'thought', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'may', 'still', 'core', 'tact', 'change', 'correct', 'word', 'answer', 'expanded', 'widespread', 'time', 'focus']"
"['seen', 'number', 'incarceration', 'political', 'system', 'prison', 'system', 'pawn', 'platform', 'time', 'however', 'put', 'office', 'forget', 'original', 'platform']"
"['grow', 'change', 'time']"
"['young', 'got', 'locked', 'didnt', 'really', 'understand', 'importance', 'voting', 'interested', 'voting']"
"['guess', 'youd', 'call', 'liberal', 'coming', 'prison', 'older', 'mature', 'become', 'come', 'nurture', 'negative', 'personally', 'led', 'life', 'crime', 'whereas', 'uphold', 'innocent', 'wholesome', 'taught', 'growing', 'probably', 'wouldnt', 'survey', 'right']"
"['would', 'like', 'address', 'previous', 'question', 'made', 'less', 'likely', 'vote', 'less', 'likely', 'feel', 'voter', 'nothing', 'help', 'voice', 'truly', 'far', 'political', 'since', 'incarceration', 'use', 'go', 'family', 'thought', 'told', 'whereas', 'due', 'find', 'need', 'know', 'make', 'best', 'decision', 'needs', 'citizen']"
"['came', 'yo', 'prison', 'never', 'know', 'anything', 'political', 'care', 'time', 'learn', 'different', 'party', 'understand', 'trying', 'help']"
"['didnt', 'use', 'care', 'really', 'didnt', 'understand', 'anything', 'seeing', 'seen', 'since', 'really', 'made', 'want', 'active', 'voting', 'making', 'voice']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'streets', 'didnt', 'understand', 'lost', 'streets', 'want', 'better', 'streets', 'want', 'help', 'hope', 'dont', 'get', 'lost']"
"['use', 'think', 'party', 'black', 'party', 'responsible', 'mass', 'incarceration']"
"['political', 'since', 'since', 'learned', 'think', 'critically', 'look', 'situation', 'objectively', 'weigh', 'instead', 'issue', 'concerning', 'one', 'political', 'another']"
"['dont', 'think', 'rather', 'believe', 'helping', 'help', 'everyone']"
"['seen', 'much', 'corruption', 'comes', 'us', 'want', 'accept', 'fact', 'want', 'represent', 'country', 'help', 'us', 'get', 'hope', 'lying']"
"['understand', 'need', 'help', 'able', 'fit', 'back', 'need', 'power', 'aid']"
"['use', 'anything', 'right', 'arms', 'came', 'young', 'teach', 'better', 'gift', 'right', 'responsibility', 'goes', 'shooting', 'agree', 'done', 'issue']"
"['political', 'view', 'point', 'believe', 'everyone', 'able', 'vote']"
"['actually', 'watch', 'news', 'didnt', 'know', 'understand', 'going']"
"['certain', 'face', 'today', 'society', 'president']"
"['thinking', 'time', 'dont', 'make', 'sense']"
"['world', 'works']"
"['really', 'self', 'see', 'see', 'turn', 'around', 'one', 'small', 'thing', 'wealthy', 'say', 'well', 'people_ùê']"
"['democratic', 'side', 'republican']"
"['look', 'differently']"
"['much', 'realize', 'government', 'impact', 'daily', 'life', 'prisoner', 'involved', 'standing', 'voice']"
"['yes', 'concerning', 'notice', 'dont', 'care', 'right', 'actually', 'lie', 'political', 'sacrifice', 'moral', 'character', 'extremely', 'bad', 'view']"
"['watching', 'news', 'whats', 'going', 'country']"
"['try', 'look', 'sides']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'news', 'understand', 'happening']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'use', 'want', 'vote', 'make', 'difference', 'country', 'coming', 'prison', 'seeing', 'treatment', 'made', 'realize', 'corrupted', 'system', 'around', 'forever', 'apart', 'gang', 'justice', 'freedom']"
"['said', 'last', 'question', 'still', 'dont', 'trust', 'politics']"
"['would', 'like', 'say', 'even', 'member', 'community', 'far', 'socially', 'financially', 'conservative', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'support', 'number', 'societal', 'especially', 'education', 'justice', 'reform', 'support', 'still', 'consider', 'republican', 'though', 'one', 'might', 'call', 'purple', 'elephant', 'conservative', 'willing', 'make', 'compromise', 'wherein', 'public', 'good', 'best', 'slightly', 'less', 'conservative', 'approach']"
"['political', 'world', 'meant', 'nothing', 'felt', 'didnt', 'effect', 'life', 'read', 'learned', 'time', 'shown', 'wrong']"
"['tune', 'outside', 'world', 'ever', 'cause', 'know', 'ill', 'affected', 'point', 'life', 'incarceration']"
"['time', 'due', 'change', 'really', 'politics', 'like', 'us', 'government', 'say', 'anything', 'know', 'stop']"
"['well', 'sent', 'prison', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'political', 'stuff', 'study', 'half']"
['know']
"['use', 'think', 'democratic', 'party', 'best', 'interest', 'hand', 'since', 'like', 'many', 'seen', 'truth', 'democratic', 'party', 'ensure', 'made', 'collect', 'history', 'certain', 'make', 'health', 'care', 'vote', 'opposite', 'party', 'vote', 'instead', 'needs', 'needs']"
"['locked', 'made', 'look', 'life', 'prison', 'see', 'need', 'change']"
"['well', 'coming', 'prison', 'law', 'enforcement', 'grown', 'come', 'look', 'thing', 'lot', 'differently', 'choose', 'view', 'understand', 'theyre', 'coming']"
"['want', 'put', 'right', 'office', 'seem', 'always', 'money', 'war', 'sending', 'back']"
"['grew', 'told', 'history', 'class', 'school', 'could', 'best', 'working', 'class', 'poor', 'overall', 'country', 'get', 'older', 'realize', 'corruption', 'major', 'political']"
"['incarceration', 'didnt', 'really', 'care', 'politics', 'except', 'voting', 'bigger', 'view', 'political', 'world', 'due', 'access', 'constant', 'watching', 'news']"
"['look', 'every', 'voice', 'count', 'every', 'vote', 'count']"
[]
"['difficult', 'say']"
"['usually', 'could', 'careless', 'since', 'politics', 'new', 'affect', 'sex', 'hearing']"
"['prison', 'realize', 'community', 'also', 'society', 'also', 'also', 'want', 'help', 'improve', 'around', 'thats', 'would', 'like', 'run', 'state']"
"['havent', 'radically', 'dont', 'consider']"
"['feel', 'like', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'needs', 'stop', 'need', 'form', 'good', 'time']"
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['made', 'open']"
"['didnt', 'knowledge', 'locked', 'since']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'open']"
"['locked', 'pay', 'attention', 'world']"
"['got', 'reason', 'didnt', 'think', 'saw', 'news', 'politics', 'anything', 'got', 'older', 'learning', 'politics', 'saw', 'whatever', 'going', 'capital', 'hill', 'white', 'house', 'something']"
"['yes', 'perhaps', 'corruption', 'inside', 'system', 'awful', 'killing', 'control', 'good', 'time', 'system', 'overcrowded', 'funds', 'going', 'need', 'made', 'actual', 'public', 'knowledge', 'like', 'public', 'understand', 'believe', 'punishment', 'reach', 'parole', 'done', 'time', 'positively', 'conduct', 'free', 'yet', 'due', 'wait', 'classes', 'parole', 'cannot', 'get', 'fault', 'wait', 'mail', 'list', 'long', 'close']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['getting', 'worser', 'person', 'locked', 'getting', 'help', 'make', 'better', 'plus', 'staff', 'white', 'nonwhite', 'constantly', 'setting', 'either', 'hole', 'worst', 'new', 'case']"
"['border', 'control', 'deportation', 'illegal']"
"['state', 'michigan', 'law', 'truth', 'person', 'minimum', 'law', 'go', 'home', 'michigan', 'minimum', 'see', 'parole', 'board', 'thats', 'right', 'way', 'law', 'shouldnt', 'parole', 'board']"
"['incarceration', 'closed', 'minded', 'mind', 'set', 'political', 'concerned', 'going', 'community', 'world', 'much', 'bigger', 'opinion', 'didnt', 'directly', 'affect', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['yes', 'pay', 'attention', 'said', 'background', 'information']"
"['really', 'becoming', 'aware', 'whats', 'going', 'around', 'son', 'think', 'smart', 'become', 'somewhat']"
"['going', 'politically']"
"['never', 'really', 'prison', 'life', 'living', 'horrible', 'nasty', 'crime', 'send', 'everyone', 'prison', 'court', 'gun', 'residue', 'better', 'plea', 'clean', 'need', 'come', 'back', 'vote', 'change', 'low', 'work', 'decision', 'need', 'change']"
"['never', 'really', 'understood', 'political', 'world', 'like', 'untill', 'came', 'prison', 'reading', 'watching', 'news', 'pay', 'close', 'attention']"
"['coming', 'prison', 'political', 'view', 'voting', 'didnt', 'care', 'one', 'way', 'coming', 'prison', 'guess', 'whole', 'thing', 'shoe', 'foot', 'whatnot']"
"['think', 'michigan', 'needs', 'soe', 'reform', 'treatment']"
"['thing', 'never', 'thought', 'like', 'reform']"
['yes']
"['trump', 'need', 'good', 'time', 'like', 'dont', 'matter', 'every', 'one']"
"['though', 'ever', 'favor', 'yeah', 'political', 'view', 'since']"
"['use', 'think', 'best', 'interest', 'heart', 'learned', 'political', 'part']"
"['yes', 'look']"
"['got', 'locked', 'ago', 'grown']"
"['yes', 'never', 'thought', 'sex', 'offender', 'one', 'understand', 'sex', 'offender', 'still', 'need', 'help']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'previously', 'simply', 'understand', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'prison', 'justice', 'system', 'young', 'public', 'safety', 'officer', 'used', 'buy', 'tough', 'crime', 'politics']"
"['didnt', 'care', 'care', 'especially', 'comes', 'way', 'president', 'answer', 'behalf']"
"['didnt', 'realize', 'corrupt', 'politics', 'legal', 'system', 'prior']"
[]
"['anyone', 'tried', 'help', 'believe', 'help', 'root', 'commit']"
"['support', 'want', 'change', 'want', 'keep', 'system']"
"['watch', 'news', 'really', 'feel', 'cant', 'vote', 'stand']"
"['age', 'view', 'better', 'informed']"
['trump']
"['seeing', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['think', 'sides']"
['never']
"['open', 'recognize', 'media', 'bias', 'learned', 'form', 'political', 'bias']"
"['lote', 'get', 'wrong', 'even', 'frist', 'crime']"
"['concerned', 'country', 'president']"
"['made', 'want', 'take', 'control']"
"['time', 'watch', 'see', 'politics']"
"['never', 'much', 'attention', 'matter', 'like', 'everyone']"
"['seeing', 'current', 'president', 'trump', 'able', 'lie', 'blatantly', 'justify', 'behavior', 'excuse', 'abuse', 'office', 'president', 'oath', 'swore', 'god', 'man', 'uphold']"
"['inhumane', 'treatment', 'montana', 'department', 'towards', 'inmate']"
"['political', 'prison', 'didnt', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['learned', 'corrupt', 'judicial', 'system', 'overwhelming', 'need', 'judicial', 'reform', 'constitution', 'constitutional', 'need', 'find', 'put', 'office', 'whats', 'best', 'instead', 'wealthy']"
"['know', 'hate', 'politics']"
"['know', 'corruption', 'government']"
"['since', 'locked']"
"['came', 'really']"
[]
"['dont', 'know', 'write']"
"['strong', 'conservative', 'religious', 'many', 'classes']"
"['see', 'poor']"
"['think', 'politics', 'prey', 'poor', 'rich', 'get', 'away', 'minimal', 'punishment']"
['yes']
"['hand', 'witness', 'pure', 'absolute', 'corruption', 'justice', 'system', 'country', 'become', 'police', 'power', 'corruption', 'justice', 'system', 'greed', 'power', 'religious', 'zealousy', 'antiquated', 'keep', 'system', 'corrupt', 'path', 'consequentially', 'leading', 'country', 'inevitable', 'ruin', 'make', 'immediate', 'need', 'lose', 'greed', 'profiteering']"
"['think', 'like', 'republican', 'middle', 'leaning', 'left']"
"['want', 'get', 'see', 'sides', 'everything']"
"['time', 'research', 'interpretation', 'constitution', 'also', 'driven', 'left', 'strict', 'construction', 'text', 'line', 'nobody', 'freewheeler']"
"['felt', 'got', 'locked', 'interested', 'getting', 'rid', 'trump']"
"['fed', 'crooked', 'system', 'dont', 'get', 'wrong', 'guilty', 'however', 'system', 'work', 'make', 'us', 'better', 'would', 'steal', 'prison', 'system', 'manifestation', 'societal', 'injustice', 'prison', 'system', 'society', 'less', 'safe']"
"['become', 'conservative', 'believe', 'also', 'learned', 'transparency', 'necessary']"
"['aware', 'profit', 'get', 'tough', 'crime', 'came', 'sides', 'far', 'political']"
"['likely', 'want', 'vote']"
"['payed', 'attention']"
"['open', 'corruption']"
"['support', 'truly', 'want', 'help']"
"['yes', 'would', 'like', 'opinion', 'count', 'toward', 'something']"
['empathy']
"['come', 'see', 'bad', 'already']"
"['look', 'candidate', 'differently', 'listen', 'progressive']"
"['treat', 'discharge', 'crime', 'get', 'parole']"
"['law', 'mist', 'life', 'dont', 'give', 'person', 'get', 'way', 'stop']"
"['whole', 'system', 'us', 'police', 'media', 'public', 'prison', 'parole', 'board', 'work', 'hard', 'keep', 'prison', 'help', 'ensure', 'many', 'come', 'back']"
"['liberal', 'view']"
"['still', 'believe', 'country', 'best', 'nation', 'world']"
"['justice', 'system', 'needs', 'across', 'board', 'every', 'state', 'montana', 'far', 'behind', 'considering', 'parole', 'something', 'federal', 'illegal', 'condition', 'give', 'anyone', 'state']"
"['see', 'different', 'side']"
"['used', 'faith', 'government', 'dont', 'power', 'overthrow', 'corruption', 'continue', 'believe', 'civil', 'legal', 'remedy', 'violence', 'mandatory', 'believe', 'president', 'trump', 'would', 'support', 'military', 'witch', 'democratic', 'party', 'executed', 'high', 'treason', 'corruption', 'false', 'punishable', 'death']"
"['faith', 'montana', 'justice']"
"['hat', 'country', 'done', 'become']"
"['well', 'sure', 'side', 'agree']"
"['believe', 'need', 'person', 'work', 'equality']"
"['place', 'prison', 'see', 'say']"
"['affected', 'human', 'civil', 'keep', 'prison', 'life', 'light', 'killing', 'engaged', 'consenting', 'homosexual', 'oral', 'sex', 'man', 'going', 'marry', 'put', 'prison']"
"['aware', 'leftist']"
"['know', 'hate', 'country', 'full']"
[]
"['understanding', 'system', 'much', 'informed', 'rather', 'common', 'perception', 'seen', 'actual', 'mistreatment', 'prisoner', 'profit', 'system', 'needs']"
"['prison', 'politics', 'politics', 'nutshell']"
"['see', 'importance', 'tolerance']"
"['cause', 'cannot', 'help', 'change', 'tribe', 'help', 'find', 'help', 'pur', 'family']"
"['since', 'false', 'seen', 'want', 'president', 'president', 'president']"
"['power', 'vote', 'path', 'country', 'take', 'define', 'future']"
"['political', 'fact', 'becoming', 'aware', 'situation', 'locked', 'penological', 'system', 'dramatic', 'effect']"
"['used', 'believe', 'justice', 'know', 'better']"
"['really', 'dont', 'care']"
"['time', 'come', 'moor', 'open', 'open', 'minded', 'world', 'politics', 'trump', 'never', 'politics', 'outside', 'prison', 'mead', 'politics', 'fun', 'know', 'friendly', 'person', 'politic', 'times', 'little', 'brash', 'right', 'say', 'president', 'could', 'tould', 'dont', 'think', 'ether', 'side', 'lie', 'tell', 'us', 'want', 'word', 'hurt', 'lot', 'made', 'country', 'better', 'would', 'say', 'havent', 'mead', 'mind', 'yet', 'want', 'country', 'great', 'powerful', 'know', 'war', 'self', 'ether', 'brake', 'us', 'make', 'us', 'better']"
"['yes', 'justice', 'system', 'see', 'political', 'country', 'heading', 'brewing', 'making', 'want', 'help', 'country', 'yet', 'issue', 'prevention', 'weighing', 'opinion', 'correct', 'voting']"
"['vet', 'already', 'upset', 'path', 'country', 'taken', 'anti']"
"['grown', 'emotionally', 'understand']"
"['see', 'money', 'stress', 'corruption', 'correction', 'country']"
"['everyone', 'dune', 'time']"
"['made', 'way', 'thinking']"
"['taken', 'away', 'crime', 'took', 'appeal', 'away', 'justice', 'system', 'get', 'away', 'much', 'truth', 'debate', 'best']"
['crime']
"['see', 'shady', 'acting', 'like', 'spoiled', 'ashamed']"
"['never', 'thought', 'impact', 'politics', 'much', 'impact', 'us', 'trump', 'messing', 'allies', 'getting', 'away', 'much', 'president', 'law', 'believe', 'congress', 'file', 'criminal']"
"['interest', 'politics', 'life', 'care']"
"['become', 'interested', 'politics', 'understand', 'impact', 'power', 'influence', 'political', 'power']"
"['yes', 'care', 'population', 'montana', 'montana', 'supreme', 'court', 'care', 'innocent', 'prison', 'case', 'see', 'wrong', 'case', 'county', 'case', 'case', 'talk', 'case', 'want', 'conviction', 'case']"
"['made', 'aware', 'going', 'happen']"
"['need', 'one', 'nonsense', 'earth']"
"['since', 'incarceration', 'want', 'know', 'system', 'history', 'believe', 'need']"
"['us', 'made', 'forget', 'time', 'us', 'need', 'thinking', 'good', 'bad', 'good']"
"['dont', 'know']"
"['see', 'hand', 'prison', 'system', 'suppose', 'help', 'dont', 'help', 'funds', 'pocket']"
"['vote', 'opinion', 'goes', 'country']"
"['yes', 'regardless', 'always', 'put', 'want', 'office', 'even', 'know', 'anything', 'old', 'saying', 'goes', 'money', 'walk']"
"['gun', 'violence', 'greatly', 'use', 'really', 'enjoy', 'shooting', 'grew', 'watching', 'terrible', 'happen', 'liberty', 'play', 'another', 'human', 'life', 'dont', 'give', 'someone', 'launch', 'like', 'cant', 'think', 'reason', 'gun', 'rifle', 'going', 'hunting', 'whole', 'herd', 'bison', 'home', 'defense', 'ill', 'probably', 'bring', 'whole', 'house', 'around', 'rifle', 'good', 'dont', 'see', 'wouldnt', 'anyone', 'else']"
"['great', 'state', 'montana', 'corrupt', 'state', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'change', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'home']"
"['ways', 'always', 'disadvantage', 'country', 'based', 'race', 'even', 'working', 'state', 'college', 'admission', 'office', 'father', 'navy']"
"['justice', 'blind', 'ching', 'hear', 'sound', 'money', 'longer', 'right', 'wrong', 'profit']"
['didnt']
"['believe', 'financial', 'gain', 'especially', 'montana']"
"['personally', 'affected', 'department', 'whereas', 'never', 'experienced', 'incarceration', 'ignorant', 'ways', 'judicial', 'system', 'definitely', 'public', 'rehabilitation', 'control', 'experimentation', 'obey', 'else']"
"['get', 'involved', 'process', 'informed', 'solution']"
"['country', 'highest', 'incarceration', 'rate', 'world', 'would', 'support', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'congressman', 'senator', 'would', 'petty', 'drug', 'possession', 'treatment', 'intensive', 'supervision', 'time', 'system', 'attached', 'steering', 'wheel', 'sex', 'unfortunately', 'get', 'successfully', 'complete', 'treatment', 'locked', 'halfway', 'house', 'let', 'inmate', 'earn', 'right', 'outside', 'depending', 'behavior', 'around', 'dayclose', 'yr', 'incarcerate', 'take', 'money', 'provide', 'classes', 'addiction', 'like', 'believe', 'child', 'sex', 'addiction', 'sense', 'reality', 'us', 'behave', 'go', 'chosen']"
['yes']
['best']
"['got', 'locked', 'young', 'really', 'care', 'happening', 'country', 'thirteen', 'later', 'may', 'soon', 'society', 'would', 'say', 'every', 'thing', 'happening', 'affect', 'us', 'one', 'way', 'another']"
"['never', 'politics', 'truly', 'understood', 'better', 'educated', 'understand', 'important', 'know']"
"['interested', 'system', 'get', 'us', 'back', 'founding', 'father', 'mind', 'stated', 'thinking', 'founding', 'concerned', 'party']"
"['time', 'actually', 'hear', 'soak', 'sides', 'trying', 'saying', 'going', 'pretty', 'interesting', 'stay', 'party', 'backed', 'life', 'end']"
"['matter', 'got', 'voice', 'world', 'small', 'need', 'follow', 'politics', 'cause', 'well']"
"['value', 'moral', 'raised', 'affect', 'community', 'importance', 'voice', 'prison', 'matter', 'anyone', 'way', 'matter', 'need', 'contribute', 'voice']"
"['older', 'far', 'age', 'better', 'informed', 'experienced', 'mature', 'socially', 'aware', 'later', 'wish', 'could', 'participate', 'society', 'working', 'paying', 'voting', 'alas', 'citizenship', 'forever', 'lost']"
"['educated', 'political', 'independent', 'vote', 'along', 'party', 'vote', 'think', 'best', 'job', 'matter', 'party', 'belong']"
"['sort', 'yes', 'one', 'story', 'goes', 'thusly', 'prior', 'coming', 'prison', 'basically', 'want', 'mine', 'dont', 'like', 'way', 'hate', 'wasnt', 'exactly', 'kind', 'outlook', 'year', 'prison', 'come', 'prayer', 'everything', 'wasnt', 'political', 'prior', 'relationship', 'everything', 'came', 'differently', 'met', 'thus', 'little', 'politics', 'inhabited', 'thinking', 'also', 'underwent', 'revolution']"
"['much', 'aware', 'free', 'man']"
"['see', 'government', 'negligent', 'self', 'serving']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['regardless', 'vote', 'put', 'office', 'want', 'feel', 'like', 'hey', 'made', 'history', 'black', 'president', 'put']"
"['growing', 'never', 'thought', 'politics', 'living']"
"['since', 'number', 'voice', 'important', 'enough', 'vote']"
"['thing', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'used', 'personal', 'went', 'extreme', 'liberalism', 'moderate', 'socialist', 'viewpoint']"
"['yes', 'came', 'age', 'didnt', 'really', 'understand', 'care', 'like', 'understand', 'better', 'like', 'health', 'care', 'border', 'security', 'gun', 'violence', 'food', 'think', 'pay', 'attention', 'pay', 'attention', 'late']"
"['never', 'really', 'politics', 'untill', 'got', 'locked']"
"['used', 'believe', 'see', 'evil', 'place', 'run', 'real', 'dope']"
"['starting', 'recognize', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'old', 'party', 'reform', 'justice', 'drug']"
"['understand', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['see', 'corrupt', 'unfair', 'system', 'would', 'vote', 'someone', 'see']"
"['havent', 'politics', 'subjected', 'unjust', 'running', 'montana', 'state', 'prison', 'system']"
"['stripped', 'od']"
['yes']
"['didnt', 'really', 'political']"
"['able', 'get', 'better', 'understanding', 'government']"
['human']
"['made', 'prejudice', 'made', 'like', 'politics', 'much']"
"['well', 'point', 'paying', 'like', 'see', 'thing', 'care', 'running', 'gay', 'right', 'marry']"
"['wish', 'could', 'sure', 'took', 'every', 'thing', 'away', 'four', 'latter', 'trying', 'give', 'back', 'vote', 'four', 'aid', 'still', 'didnt', 'give', 'us', 'back', 'country', 'fair', 'us']"
"['dont', 'care']"
[]
['watch']
"['voting', 'time', 'opinion', 'much', 'concern', 'right']"
"['think', 'trump', 'best']"
"['become', 'informed', 'political', 'climate', 'happening', 'country', 'time', 'goes', 'honestly', 'think', 'comes', 'age', 'though']"
"['concrete', 'call', 'cell', 'misguided', 'adolescent', 'best', 'locked', 'cell', 'day', 'straight', 'heart', 'mind', 'many', 'thus', 'formulation', 'political', 'today']"
"['waste', 'time']"
"['dont', 'voice', 'end', 'dont']"
"['never', 'rich', 'colored', 'last', 'slight', 'form', 'equality', 'may']"
"['since', 'initial', 'incarceration', 'law', 'given', 'great', 'appreciation', 'law', 'want', 'active', 'productive', 'member', 'society']"
"['hate', 'fact', 'government', 'particularly', 'take', 'pride', 'family', 'hate', 'every', 'cop', 'involved', 'family', 'nothing', 'sheer', 'joy', 'us']"
"['dont', 'see', 'change', 'one']"
['democratic']
"['cant', 'tell']"
"['right', 'wing', 'conservative', 'moderate']"
"['desire', 'care', 'face', 'humanity']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'didnt', 'care']"
"['yes', 'gang', 'member']"
"['following', 'trump', 'faith', 'structure', 'government', 'reform', 'federal', 'far', 'best', 'president', 'lifetime']"
"['spent', 'time', 'learning', 'prison', 'lived', 'servant', 'know', 'like', 'say', 'live', 'better', 'china', 'living', 'camp', 'affect', 'every', 'thing', 'decide', 'life', 'face', 'death', 'penalty', 'affect', 'everything']"
['country']
"['time', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'world', 'give', 'serious', 'consideration']"
['stupid']
"['become', 'corrupt', 'look', 'rich']"
"['country', 'way', 'used']"
"['better', 'idea', 'tax', 'angry', 'system']"
"['well', 'done', 'lot', 'wrong', 'criminal', 'yes', 'get', 'wrong', 'wrong', 'get', 'away', 'like', 'give', 'input', 'parole', 'see', 'strong', 'suite', 'feel']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'always', 'political', 'stock', 'keeping', 'torn', 'apart', 'monetary', 'gain']"
[]
"['worried', 'family', 'dealing', 'daily']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'made', 'help', 'matter', 'type', 'crime', 'try', 'change', 'one', 'hardly', 'chance']"
"['hate', 'country']"
"['incarceration', 'system', 'make', 'control', 'prison', 'system', 'doc', 'justice', 'know', 'concerned', 'way', 'look', 'affect', 'party', 'saying', 'dont', 'care', 'crime', 'long', 'either', 'look', 'good', 'something', 'help', 'next', 'election']"
"['theres', 'money', 'become', 'theres', 'deserve', 'locked', 'dont', 'one', 'government', 'concerned']"
"['much', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics', 'well', 'able', 'believe', 'seem', 'constantly', 'going', 'white', 'house', 'language', 'never', 'sitting', 'president', 'impossible', 'pay', 'attention', 'felon', 'since', 'vote', 'certain', 'made', 'like', 'best', 'pay', 'attention', 'matter', 'vote']"
"['run', 'president']"
"['time', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['aware', 'broken', 'system', 'war', 'without', 'accountability', 'true', 'amendment', 'right', 'press', 'tell', 'side', 'automatically', 'guilty', 'upon', 'arrest', 'forgotten', 'please', 'see']"
"['watched', 'political', 'many', 'filling']"
"['seen', 'injustice']"
"['never', 'untell', 'paying']"
['us']
"['yes', 'ever', 'hateful', 'strongly', 'think', 'need', 'eradicate', 'current', 'restart']"
"['time', 'gather', 'political']"
"['prisoner', 'law', 'crime', 'keep', 'locked', 'past', 'discharge', 'unethical', 'wrong']"
"['well', 'dont', 'think', 'long', 'term', 'incarceration', 'answer', 'crime']"
"['watch', 'news', 'informed', 'know', 'want', 'office']"
"['like', 'would', 'rather', 'paying', 'taking', 'care', 'family', 'instead', 'wasting', 'tax', 'money', 'living', 'prison']"
['core']
"['yes', 'dont', 'believe', 'voice', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'sitting', 'hill', 'congress', 'yawning', 'disposed', 'piece', 'paper', 'talking', 'talking', 'garbage', 'policy', 'making', 'six', 'sac', 'lunch', 'many', 'wasted', 'day', 'acceptable', 'something', 'snaps', 'yet', 'must', 'comity', 'counsel', 'vacation', 'holiday', 'yet', 'federal', 'government', 'whole', 'quite', 'growing', 'support', 'us', 'get', 'stand', 'say', 'thats', 'waste', 'poor', 'quite', 'poor', 'funded', 'see', 'fraction', 'grant', 'wasted', 'paying', 'dont', 'want', 'end', 'drag', 'incentive', 'ever', 'end', 'anything', 'example', 'correctional']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'get', 'big']"
"['feel', 'like', 'show', 'class', 'want', 'normal', 'population', 'voting', 'create', 'nation', 'pursuit', 'happiness', 'individual', 'freedom', 'obtain', 'dream']"
"['involved', 'whats', 'world']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'important', 'look', 'running', 'office', 'support']"
[]
['nope']
"['look', 'support']"
"['think', 'country', 'running', 'touch', 'trump', 'something', 'outside', 'standard', 'wrong', 'choice', 'right', 'much', 'baggage', 'someone', 'else', 'think', 'may', 'beaten', 'trump', 'theyre', 'trump']"
"['locked', 'recidivism', 'rate', 'goes']"
"['think', 'impression', 'president', 'everything', 'condescending', 'comes', 'never', 'also', 'needs', 'improperly', 'authority', 'get', 'information']"
"['obviously', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'actually', 'lack', 'vote', 'could', 'vote', 'age', 'knowledge', 'made']"
"['yes', 'really', 'didnt', 'understand', 'much', 'want', 'involved']"
"['met', 'made', 'interesting', 'see', 'look']"
['democrat']
"['well', 'locked', 'facility', 'lower', 'housing', 'unit', 'injustice', 'person', 'go', 'even', 'person', 'innocent', 'dont', 'kind', 'voice', 'everyday', 'giving', 'person', 'whats', 'hole', 'anything', 'strait', 'humane', 'torcher', 'inhumane', 'needs', 'political', 'today']"
"['lost', 'faith', 'justice', 'system']"
"['petty', 'full', 'dangerous']"
[]
"['didnt', 'bother', 'much', 'politics', 'seeing', 'truth', 'come', 'call', 'justice', 'want', 'support', 'someone', 'focus', 'foreign', 'war', 'matter', 'control']"
"['believe', 'true', 'interest', 'personal', 'agenda']"
"['never', 'attention', 'politics', 'starting', 'follow']"
['yes']
"['locked', 'everything']"
"['never', 'use', 'care', 'figured', 'way', 'say', 'matter', 'learned', 'statement', 'false', 'live', 'country', 'rule', 'voting', 'powerful', 'tool', 'used', 'change', 'wrong', 'going', 'majority', 'population', 'color', 'would', 'happen', 'whole', 'lot', 'poor', 'uneducated', 'hope', 'better', 'future', 'voting']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'need', 'express', 'matter']"
"['half', 'ago', 'evil']"
"['yes', 'vote']"
"['learned', 'progovernment', 'believe', 'freedom', 'well', 'right', 'bare', 'arms', 'party', 'sort', 'freedom', 'right', 'bare', 'arms', 'vote', 'stand', 'presidential']"
"['feel', 'like', 'dont', 'voice']"
['yes']
"['realize', 'corrupt', 'bias', 'judicial', 'system', 'plus', 'nothing', 'commodity', 'market', 'pork', 'orange', 'juice', 'oil']"
"['see', 'break', 'law', 'cant', 'anything']"
['good']
['yea']
"['really', 'sit', 'time', 'think', 'going', 'world', 'without', 'made', 'decide', 'influence', 'change']"
"['yes', 'belive', 'right', 'vote']"
['ever']
"['simple', 'rich', 'get', 'rest', 'us', 'plea']"
"['nd', 'amendment', 'way', 'never']"
"['pay', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['engaged', 'every', 'level', 'important', 'ever', 'soul', 'preservation', 'good', 'freedom', 'free', 'ignorance', 'apathy']"
['sure']
"['become', 'aware', 'multitude', 'social', 'society', 'unaware']"
"['yes', 'ever', 'matter']"
"['prison', 'reform']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'inmate']"
[]
[]
"['think', 'human', 'crime', 'system']"
"['come', 'understand', 'dont', 'understand', 'politics']"
['yes']
['havent']
"['fact', 'incarceration', 'rather', 'learned', 'since']"
"['everything', 'money']"
"['older', 'see']"
"['time', 'debate']"
[]
"['general', 'public', 'know']"
"['hope', 'god', 'political', 'need']"
"['use', 'proven', 'crazy']"
"['incarceration', 'witness', 'discrimination', 'previously', 'thought', 'dying', 'culture', 'also', 'connected', 'information', 'belief', 'political', 'opinion', 'think', 'one', 'culturally', 'diverse', 'sometimes', 'antagonistic', 'potential', 'individual', 'growth']"
"['need', 'let', 'public', 'know', 'going', 'inside', 'prison', 'public', 'know', 'clew', 'whats', 'going', 'choose', 'make', 'public', 'usually']"
"['well', 'politically', 'informed']"
"['racism', 'rising', 'along', 'drug', 'abuse', 'organizational', 'profit', 'chosen']"
"['guess', 'see', 'trouble', 'prison', 'doesnt', 'work', 'times']"
[]
"['become', 'aware', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'since']"
['standing']
"['young', 'informed', 'opinion']"
"['used', 'think', 'good', 'crime', 'yrs', 'ago', 'mandatory', 'min', 'sentence', 'ended', 'life', 'never', 'hurt', 'anyone']"
"['attention', 'government', 'political', 'news']"
"['dont', 'care', 'number', 'dollar', 'sign']"
"['yes', 'cause', 'got', 'closer', 'look', 'hand', 'dirty', 'legal', 'system', 'right', 'back']"
"['use', 'voice']"
[]
"['fight', 'native']"
"['well', 'thought', 'trump', 'might', 'good', 'ever', 'wrong']"
['interested']
"['yes', 'used', 'side']"
"['grown', 'aware', 'true', 'realm', 'prison', 'complex', 'social', 'rather', 'criminal', 'mental', 'illness', 'drug', 'addiction', 'broken', 'without', 'perpetuate']"
"['life', 'tend', 'effect', 'generalized', 'anyways', 'change', 'inevitable', 'ability', 'adapt', 'anything', 'else', 'us', 'dominant', 'species', 'planet']"
"['idea', 'didnt', 'really', 'know', 'either', 'platform', 'knew', 'welfare', 'good', 'incarceration', 'given', 'experience', 'comes', 'age', 'watching', 'news', 'know', 'intended', 'unintended', 'simple', 'ya', 'raise', 'wage', 'great', 'till', 'understand', 'gallon', 'milk', 'cost', 'us', 'little', 'pay', 'big', 'business']"
"['dont', 'feel', 'like']"
"['havent', 'chance', 'vote']"
"['would', 'like', 'start', 'group', 'back', 'corrupt', 'system', 'really', 'taught', 'water', 'real', 'life', 'slowly', 'need', 'schooling', 'job']"
"['never', 'attention', 'befire']"
"['lean', 'left']"
"['becoming', 'less', 'ignorant', 'politics', 'get', 'older', 'becoming', 'important', 'venture', 'slowly', 'selfish', 'little', 'world', 'built', 'self', 'still', 'knowledgeable', 'id', 'like', 'could', 'probably', 'tell']"
"['watched', 'news', 'found']"
"['big', 'deal', 'us', 'forgotten']"
"['wrong', 'individual', 'president', 'trump']"
"['learned', 'deal', 'system', 'general']"
"['prison', 'business', 'see']"
"['needs', 'active', 'prison', 'reform']"
"['looking', 'several', 'us', 'failure', 'government', 'looking', 'reform', 'simple', 'answer', 'lock', 'spend', 'taxpayer', 'money', 'incarceration', 'instead', 'treatment', 'teaching', 'keep', 'addicted', 'bettering', 'country', 'whole', 'country', 'combined', 'land', 'free_ùâ_ùá']"
"['locked', 'political', 'since', 'sides', 'gone', 'combination', 'common', 'sense', 'feel', 'inside']"
['want']
"['fallen', 'cant', 'vote']"
"['dont', 'vote']"
"['feel', 'victim', 'system', 'fill', 'instead', 'times', 'relapsing', 'new']"
"['yes', 'authority', 'taught', 'reliable', 'myth', 'daily']"
"['far', 'empathy', 'understanding', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'civil', 'also', 'enlightened', 'bias', 'subject', 'especially', 'black']"
[]
"['yes', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'really', 'didnt', 'care', 'one', 'way']"
[]
"['yes', 'care', 'politics', 'realize', 'much', 'politics', 'directly', 'affect', 'made', 'study', 'research', 'instead', 'apathetic']"
"['yes', 'work', 'education', 'wrongfully', 'centered', 'around', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reintegration', 'ball', 'name', 'rehabilitation', 'still', 'much', 'herd', 'mentality']"
"['yes', 'president', 'made', 'take', 'notice', 'optimistic', 'real', 'change', 'pay', 'attention', 'say']"
"['yes', 'yes', 'political', 'direction', 'incarceration', 'open', 'along', 'mind']"
"['yes', 'politics', 'govern', 'important', 'involved', 'politics', 'especially', 'voting', 'process', 'much', 'fighting', 'among', 'good']"
"['lifelong', 'democrat', 'family', 'lifelong', 'see', 'directly', 'social', 'safety', 'abstract', 'like', 'generational', 'poverty', 'concrete']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'believe', 'certain', 'core', 'left', 'right']"
"['become', 'student', 'history', 'political', 'theory', 'become', 'sophisticated', 'far', 'political', 'thinking', 'goes', 'aware', 'social', 'contract', 'liberalism']"
"['yes', 'understand']"
"['yes', 'era', 'soy', 'un']"
"['yes', 'watching', 'hearing', 'trump', 'represent', 'country', 'serious']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'better', 'appreciate', 'politics', 'involved', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'prior', 'incarceration', 'considered', 'connection']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'political', 'thats', 'talk', 'seriously', 'believe', 'theres', 'lot', 'corruption', 'politics', 'system', 'built', 'nonwhite']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'strongly', 'voting', 'never', 'chance', 'know', 'voice', 'could', 'make', 'great']"
"['yes', 'gotten', 'know', 'really', 'vote', 'along', 'moral', 'situational', 'whats', 'best', 'family', 'generally', 'thinking']"
"['yes', 'campus', 'radical', 'late', 'middle', 'road', 'age', 'prison']"
[]
"['yes', 'th', 'grade', 'education', 'living', 'bathroom', 'cell', 'educated', 'see', 'dont', 'want', 'us', 'effect', 'right', 'change', 'injustice', 'system']"
"['yes', 'better', 'understanding', 'political', 'use', 'guile', 'misdirection', 'gain']"
"['yes', 'politically', 'ignorant', 'care', 'must', 'knowledge', 'participate', 'greatly', 'politics']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'originally', 'political', 'engagement', 'option', 'view', 'obligation', 'duty']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'bush', 'came', 'office', 'see', 'shift', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'trump', 'focus']"
"['vote', 'want', 'bring', 'equal', 'justice']"
"['wronged', 'late', 'program', 'much', 'cost', 'month', 'inmate', 'dont', 'address', 'paying', 'homeless']"
[]
"['yes', 'learned', 'thing', 'justice', 'rich']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'allow', 'vote']"
"['yes', 'better', 'understanding', 'legislative', 'process', 'represent', 'minority', 'fall', 'sway']"
"['yes', 'subjected', 'entire', 'jail', 'sentence', 'jail', 'reform', 'top', 'priority', 'well', 'equal', 'fair', 'treatment', 'equal', 'pay']"
"['yes', 'used', 'associate', 'democrat', 'reading', 'major', 'concur', 'history']"
[]
"['yes', 'coming', 'prison', 'didnt', 'political', 'view', 'us', 'made', 'pay', 'attention', 'view']"
[]
"['yes', 'got', 'older', 'realize', 'needs', 'change']"
"['yes', 'although', 'democrat', 'notice', 'bad', 'political', 'view', 'came', 'conflict', 'state', 'versus', 'federal', 'something', 'know', 'assume', 'different']"
[]
"['age', 'ignorantly', 'us', 'war', 'blind', 'patriotism', 'would', 'love', 'see', 'war', 'life', 'precious', 'also', 'need', 'focus', 'conservation', 'animal', 'global', 'warm']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'republican', 'everybody', 'theyre', 'corrupt']"
[]
"['yes', 'believe', 'difference', 'believe', 'white', 'men', 'agenda']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'political', 'view', 'strong', 'political', 'view']"
"['still', 'explain', 'simply', 'like', 'office', 'tried', 'sad', 'hard', 'time', 'together', 'always', 'divide', 'us']"
"['yes', 'older', 'got', 'understand', 'community', 'civil', 'business']"
"['always', 'new', 'felt', 'matter', 'like', 'outsider', 'undesirable']"
"['side', 'hear', 'free', 'free', 'free', 'poor', 'less', 'rich', 'made', 'choice', 'everyone', 'equal', 'always', 'equal', 'times']"
"['yes', 'independent', 'prison', 'complete', 'democrat', 'directly', 'involved', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'see', 'grossly', 'unfair', 'unjust', 'system', 'none', 'follow', 'law', 'go', 'personal', 'supposed']"
[]
"['yes', 'extent', 'needs', 'great', 'deal', 'reform', 'done', 'top', 'entire', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'broken', 'politics', 'largely', 'unchanged', 'center', 'right', 'center', 'left']"
"['yes', 'learning', 'might', 'able', 'make', 'difference', 'good']"
"['yes', 'yes', 'bid', 'never', 'understood', 'impact', 'political', 'toward', 'cause', 'one']"
"['yes', 'come', 'understand', 'dont', 'matter', 'party', 'control', 'comes', 'deficit', 'problem', 'facing', 'country']"
"['yes', 'right', 'way', 'believe', 'country', 'come']"
[]
"['yes', 'pretty', 'good', 'reading', 'dont', 'add']"
"['yes', 'system', 'broken', 'figure', 'along', 'cycle', 'time', 'along', 'moral', 'life']"
"['yes', 'rd', 'state', 'bid', 'also', 'fact', 'great', 'deal', 'time', 'around', 'yet', 'politically', 'speaking', 'general', 'interest', 'revolve', 'solely', 'around', 'situation', 'hand', 'entire', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'whole']"
"['yes', 'make', 'best', 'place', 'earth', 'cop', 'man', 'thought', 'house', 'got', 'black', 'would', 'never', 'see', 'light', 'day', 'ever']"
[]
"['yes', 'get', 'older', 'understand', 'us', 'make', 'change', 'come']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'like', 'lot', 'support', 'must', 'merit', 'seem', 'working', 'hard', 'becoming', 'successful']"
"['yes', 'havent', 'swayed', 'left', 'learned', 'lot', 'nancy', 'disgusted', 'ever']"
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'th', 'amendment']"
[]
"['yes', 'never', 'ever', 'vote', 'republican', 'much', 'compassionate']"
"['yes', 'incarcerate', 'criminal', 'justice', 'system', 'incredibly', 'predatory', 'coercive', 'nature', 'also', 'belief', 'fundamental', 'humanity']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'rhetoric', 'party', 'affiliation', 'longer', 'view', 'character', 'reparation', 'benevolence', 'moral', 'tone']"
"['yes', 'older']"
"['yes', 'care', 'know']"
"['yes', 'came', 'prison', 'didnt', 'care', 'politics', 'understand', 'importance', 'choosing', 'right', 'person', 'elect', 'public', 'office']"
[]
"['yes', 'got', 'know', 'know', 'since', 'really', 'know', 'care', 'one', 'time']"
['yes']
"['yes', 'feel', 'disservice', 'embracing', 'political', 'last', 'forty', 'moreover', 'political', 'view', 'concerning', 'right', 'life', 'unborn', 'certainly', 'since', 'personal', 'encounter', 'lord']"
"['yes', 'democrat', 'independent', 'politics', 'illusion', 'service', 'corruption', 'power']"
"['prior', 'incarceration', 'political']"
"['yes', 'believe', 'one', 'vote', 'change', 'great', 'deal']"
"['yes', 'never', 'attention', 'politics', 'prior', 'entering', 'prison', 'didnt', 'understand', 'politics', 'didnt', 'think', 'politics', 'black']"
"['become', 'informed', 'hopefully', 'evolve']"
"['yes', 'never', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'apt', 'believe', 'particular', 'politician', 'like', 'character', 'however', 'informed', 'weight', 'accurately']"
[]
"['yes', 'came', 'prison', 'blind', 'politics', 'indifferent', 'learned', 'politics', 'appreciate', 'important', 'black', 'get', 'involved']"
[]
"['yes', 'streets', 'never', 'really', 'watched', 'news', 'informed', 'terrible', 'happening', 'country', 'corrupt']"
[]
"['actually', 'pay', 'attention', 'politics']"
[]
"['watch', 'news', 'often', 'see', 'whats', 'going', 'country', 'didnt', 'watch', 'news', 'care']"
"['yes', 'realize', 'need']"
"['yes', 'political', 'local', 'justice', 'system', 'money', 'mill', 'political', 'machine', 'power']"
"['yes', 'never', 'much', 'attention', 'free', 'interested', 'whats', 'going', 'world']"
"['yes', 'got', 'chance', 'see', 'sideline', 'able', 'point', 'one', 'speaking']"
"['good', 'wood']"
"['pay', 'attention', 'reform']"
"['rather', 'jail', 'decide']"
"['pay', 'attention']"
"['free', 'really', 'political', 'concerned', 'new', 'affect', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['yes', 'depressed']"
"['yes', 'think', 'would', 'change', 'anyone', 'view']"
"['see', 'vote', 'charge', 'making', 'behalf', 'state', 'national', 'level', 'writing', 'passing', 'become', 'may', 'help', 'hurt', 'future']"
"['see', 'political', 'change', 'better', 'save', 'money', 'spend', 'better']"
"['reality', 'judicial', 'system', 'understanding', 'create', 'daily', 'justify', 'poor', 'man', 'say', 'raw', 'end', 'deal', 'completely', 'destroy', 'hurt']"
['helping']
"['yes', 'look']"
"['getting', 'old']"
"['feel', 'like']"
"['feel', 'though', 'penal', 'system', 'heavily', 'statistics', 'make', 'informed', 'many', 'umbrella']"
"['jail', 'prison', 'un', 'motivate']"
"['choose', 'going', 'put', 'office', 'matter', 'look', 'trump']"
"['state', 'privately', 'dwelling', 'privately', 'ran', 'misdemeanor', 'cold', 'hungry']"
"['feel', 'like', 'dont', 'want', 'bother', 'voting', 'cant']"
[]
['thanks']
['yes']
['none']
"['yes', 'time', 'offender', 'never', 'involved', 'politics', 'thought', 'prison', 'matter', 'involve', 'pernicious', 'machine', 'lifetime']"
"['yes', 'become', 'result', 'seeing', 'republican', 'power']"
"['yes', 'time', 'see', 'thing', 'much', 'clearly', 'extra', 'time', 'want', 'need', 'involved', 'choice', 'part', 'system']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'read', 'vote', 'ever', 'family', 'say', 'vote']"
"['want', 'able', 'voice']"
['sure']
[]
"['yes', 'longer', 'believe', 'death', 'penalty', 'removing']"
"['yes', 'idea', 'much', 'wealthy', 'pushing', 'detrimental', 'everyone', 'moral', 'fiber', 'country']"
"['yes', 'become', 'second', 'chance', 'country', 'need', 'change']"
"['yes', 'say', 'yet', 'none', 'really', 'helping', 'us', 'behind', 'dont', 'help', 'us', 'us', 'want', 'come', 'back', 'prison', 'getting', 'help', 'need']"
"['always', 'regardless', 'party', 'platform', 'stood', 'best', 'family']"
[]
"['great', 'need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'prison', 'reform', 'know', 'movement', 'could', 'send', 'prison', 'innocent', 'man', 'evidence', 'cant', 'get', 'fair', 'trial', 'unbiased', 'begin']"
"['run', 'real', 'deal', 'seen', 'die', 'lack', 'medical', 'care', 'die', 'starvation', 'seen', 'degraded', 'lack', 'hygiene', 'violence', 'alone', 'rampant', 'sex', 'get', 'need', 'survive', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'become', 'moderate', 'see', 'extremism', 'tearing', 'us', 'apart']"
"['see', 'throw', 'away', 'attitude', 'toward', 'total', 'lack', 'rehabilitation', 'available', 'prison']"
[]
"['yes', 'used', 'open', 'meeting', 'several']"
[]
"['yes', 'political', 'want', 'understand', 'politics', 'affect', 'life']"
"['yes', 'cant', 'necessarily', 'say', 'political', 'may', 'still', 'able', 'articulate', 'exactly', 'learn', 'politics', 'work', 'toward', 'deem', 'important']"
"['yes', 'dont', 'care', 'us', 'assume', 'since', 'state', 'convict', 'us', 'whatever', 'crime', 'nothing', 'like', 'care', 'whats', 'going', 'come', 'back', 'home', 'whatever', 'thats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'parole', 'system', 'needs', 'overhaul', 'shameful', 'see', 'system']"
[]
['business']
[]
"['yes', 'allow', 'prose', 'work', 'legal', 'one', 'political', 'expose', 'void', 'disciplinary', 'bar', 'biggest', 'crime', 'conspiracy', 'ever', 'told']"
"['still', 'believe', 'beautiful', 'country', 'made', 'mistake', 'learned', 'lot', 'experience', 'cause', 'listen', 'going', 'world', 'affect', 'us', 'whole', 'prison', 'free']"
"['yes', 'educated', 'politics', 'see', 'government']"
"['yes', 'staunch', 'republican', 'rush', 'free', 'world', 'seeing', 'prison', 'system', 'run', 'however', 'dont', 'see', 'us', 'want', 'lock', 'us', 'throw', 'away', 'key']"
"['really', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'us', 'see', 'clear', 'feel', 'political', 'need', 'important', 'know', 'really', 'faced', 'make', 'new']"
"['less', 'government']"
"['seen', 'corpus']"
"['much', 'towards', 'needs', 'judicial', 'reform']"
"['aware', 'effect']"
"['major', 'office']"
"['much', 'exposure', 'justice', 'system']"
"['everything', 'fair']"
"['always', 'wore', 'democrat', 'hat', 'since', 'locked', 'come', 'realize', 'republican', 'constitutional', 'preservation', 'constitution']"
"['become', 'interested', 'prison', 'reform', 'used', 'opinion', 'broke', 'law', 'locked', 'however', 'distinguish', 'acutely', 'rehabilitation', 'punishment']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'living', 'penal', 'system', 'didnt', 'care', 'someone', 'finally', 'expose', 'enemy']"
"['yes', 'become', 'aware', 'see', 'whole', 'lot']"
[]
"['yes', 'reason', 'say', 'yes', 'everything', 'put', 'dont', 'agree', 'time']"
[]
[]
[]
[]
"['yes', 'live', 'know', 'live', 'every', 'day', 'story', 'need', 'time', 'fight']"
"['lot', 'thats', 'right', 'need', 'see', 'serious']"
"['yes', 'incarceration', 'wasnt', 'politics', 'felt', 'didnt', 'matter', 'whatever', 'wasnt', 'going', 'benefit', 'kind', 'benefit', 'would', 'minimally']"
[]
[]
"['incarceration', 'realize', 'amount', 'racism', 'politics', 'came', 'head', 'trump', 'presidency', 'made', 'want', 'scream', 'shout', 'demand']"
"['conservative', 'mostly', 'yet', 'life', 'without', 'parole', 'know', 'pushing', 'prison', 'reform', 'want', 'yet', 'struggle', 'accept', 'come']"
"['yes', 'didnt', 'seem', 'like', 'vote', 'dont', 'count']"
"['living', 'society', 'wasnt', 'worried', 'politics', 'caught', 'concerned', 'happening', 'world', 'around']"
"['yes', 'never', 'thought', 'importance', 'vote', 'would', 'didnt', 'know', 'face']"
"['always', 'right', 'still', 'remains']"
"['yes', 'seen', 'get', 'lot', 'time', 'small', 'get', 'time', 'big', 'back', 'something', 'needs', 'change']"
"['yes', 'understand', 'must', 'follow', 'govern', 'human', 'body']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'prison', 'become', 'exposed', 'great', 'system', 'alike', 'poor', 'man', 'may', 'innocent', 'may', 'spend', 'rest', 'life', 'prison', 'afford', 'proper', 'legal', 'representation', 'guilt', 'man', 'money', 'may', 'go', 'free', 'pay', 'close', 'attention', 'mainly', 'approach', 'prison', 'reform', 'believe', 'make', 'change']"
"['yes', 'us', 'know', 'good', 'person', 'made', 'bad', 'decision']"
"['yes', 'accountable', 'human', 'citizen', 'want', 'better', 'help', 'understand', 'big', 'pict', 'also', 'us', 'need', 'love', 'compassion', 'god', 'actual', 'know', 'self', 'hard', 'see', 'create', 'maker']"
"['yes', 'see', 'hand', 'treat', 'mass', 'different']"
"['yes', 'new', 'learning', 'new']"
"['yes', 'locked', 'never', 'gave', 'politics', 'much', 'thought', 'time', 'care', 'dont']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'figured', 'opinion', 'wouldnt', 'matter']"
"['yes', 'see', 'truth']"
"['yes', 'let', 'white', 'house']"
"['program', 'tell', 'become', 'better', 'man']"
"['yes', 'political', 'campaign']"
"['united', 'us', 'still', 'prejudice']"
"['always', 'hopefully', 'grace', 'god', 'may', 'able', 'vote']"
"['black', 'man', 'expect', 'one', 'thing', 'dont', 'norm']"
[]
"['yes', 'actually', 'get', 'see', 'effect', 'human']"
[]
"['one', 'really', 'help', 'one', 'another', 'since', 'strived', 'learn', 'politics']"
"['yes', 'lot', 'time', 'read', 'lot', 'lot', 'lot']"
"['glaring', 'big', 'business']"
"['way', 'like', 'human', 'money', 'dont', 'wont', 'better', 'self', 'keep', 'coming', 'back']"
['answer']
"['learned', 'lot', 'whats', 'really', 'going']"
"['need', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform']"
"['feel', 'like', 'shut', 'stupid', 'made']"
"['fighting', 'formy', 'freedom']"
"['figured', 'justice', 'system', 'employment', 'system', 'respect', 'see']"
"['hate', 'wrong', 'like', 'thought', 'trump', 'good', 'nope']"
"['free', 'world', 'never', 'took', 'time', 'care', 'pay', 'attention', 'going', 'country', 'thats', 'find', 'sober', 'watching', 'news', 'informed', 'whats', 'going']"
"['yes', 'really', 'believe', 'every', 'vote', 'free', 'country', 'really', 'voicing', 'ballot']"
"['used', 'republican', 'yet', 'gravitate', 'democracy']"
['trump']
"['strong', 'towards', 'criminal', 'justice', 'reform', 'democracy']"
"['fight', 'unjust', 'system']"
"['lost', 'hidden', 'prison', 'usually', 'hear', 'prison', 'hear', 'overcrowded', 'living', 'sub', 'par', 'well', 'nutrition', 'low', 'good', 'technology', 'far', 'behind', 'real', 'world', 'get', 'easy', 'relapse', 'need', 'place', 'shorten', 'based', 'performance', 'even', 'community', 'custody', 'time', 'teach', 'ways', 'support', 'outside', 'let', 'earn', 'ways', 'able', 'successful', 'outside']"
"['yes', 'since', 'political', 'view', 'felon', 'although', 'made', 'huge', 'mistake', 'doesnt', 'mean', 'horrible', 'person', 'stuck', 'prison', 'twenty', 'five', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'since', 'locked', 'part', 'learned', 'lesson', 'lengthy', 'release', 'date', 'stuck', 'long', 'term', 'change', 'issue', 'government', 'always', 'like']"
"['notice', 'side', 'dont', 'really', 'know', 'ur', 'put', 'place', 'us']"
"['never', 'much', 'persecute', 'look', 'like', 'look', 'paper', 'feel', 'everyone', 'story', 'everyone', 'help', 'make', 'world', 'better', 'place', 'shown', 'love', 'acceptance']"
"['prison', 'reform', 'combat', 'recidivism', 'top', 'priority']"
['sure']
"['see', 'nobody', 'really', 'side', 'everyone', 'become', 'forget', 'us']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'like', 'able', 'vote', 'wath', 'believe']"
"['yes', 'realize']"
[]
['everyone']
[]
"['try', 'get', 'vote', 'back']"
"['know', 'looking', 'inside', 'like']"
"['yes', 'lack', 'dont', 'right', 'vote']"
"['need', 'change']"
"['change', 'either', 'become', 'inmate', 'affected', 'family', 'member', 'discover', 'media', 'effect', 'negative', 'way']"
"['want', 'free', 'stop', 'prison', 'profit']"
"['help', 'really', 'understand', 'whats', 'really', 'going', 'world']"
"['used', 'sex', 'registration', 'seeing', 'many', 'sex', 'offense', 'wife', 'wife', 'think', 'certain', 'able', 'cry', 'rape', 'think', 'certain', 'shouldnt', 'register', 'instance', 'guy', 'caught', 'public', 'shouldnt', 'register', 'land', 'free', 'hurting', 'anyone', 'really', 'change']"
"['interested', 'used']"
['yes']
"['five', 'percent', 'population', 'twenty', 'five', 'percent', 'illegal', 'free']"
[]
"['seen', 'inside', 'system', 'works', 'theres', 'good']"
"['feel', 'like', 'matter', 'vote', 'wont', 'matter', 'please']"
"['yes', 'understanding', 'see', 'every', 'day', 'news', 'talk']"
"['yes', 'see', 'world', 'right', 'minded', 'sober']"
"['yes', 'watching', 'news', 'everyday', 'see', 'mess', 'country', 'moment']"
"['yes', 'never', 'really', 'going', 'watch', 'news', 'see', 'going']"
"['need', 'vote']"
"['never', 'attention', 'reason', 'time']"
"['met', 'intelligent', 'strong', 'creative', 'effective', 'many', 'already', 'world', 'around', 'even', 'though', 'continue', 'face', 'stigma', 'believe', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'wrong', 'majority', 'known', 'would', 'never', 'prison', 'better', 'education', 'advocate', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'little', 'opportunity', 'rehabilitation', 'men', 'face', 'society']"
"['motivation', 'time', 'watch', 'learn', 'read', 'works', 'political', 'prince', 'given', 'perspective', 'constitution', 'differ', 'idealistic', 'form', 'come', 'realization', 'special', 'interest', 'practice', 'career', 'follow', 'blindly', 'every', 'view', 'matter', 'truth', 'contrary', 'causing', 'country', 'blindly', 'following', 'listen', 'half', 'clouded', 'follow', 'indignation', 'think', 'know', 'lead', 'stop', 'easily', 'found', 'example', 'sex', 'high', 'risk', 'reoffend', 'need', 'sex', 'offender', 'registration', 'help', 'law', 'enforcement', 'keep']"
"['far', 'normal', 'fluctuate', 'based', 'upon', 'propaganda', 'experience', 'daily']"
"['political', 'living', 'complete', 'opposite', 'life', 'everyone', 'piece', 'crap', 'criminal', 'think', 'prison', 'reform', 'serious', 'thing', 'needs']"
['nexus']
['really']
"['government', 'like', 'fill', 'state', 'federal', 'treatment', 'also', 'allow', 'streets', 'truly', 'government', 'random', 'happen', 'around', 'us', 'happen', 'purpose', 'enact', 'law', 'law', 'enforcement', 'possess']"
['really']
"['never', 'locked', 'hole', 'life', 'since', 'never', 'never', 'vote', 'voting', 'system', 'really', 'know', 'works']"
"['grown', 'interested', 'works', 'wish', 'learn']"
"['gritten', 'girly', 'face', 'live', 'comfortably', 'crazy', 'done', 'keep', 'dont', 'wit', 'real', 'wit', 'buckle', 'still', 'buckle']"
"['si', 'mi', 'es', 'yo', 'mi', 'de', 'tube', 'un', 'en', 'mi', 'es', 'un', 'para', 'mi', 'se', 'en', 'las', 'familia', 'yo', 'se', 'ai', 'para', 'soy', 'la', 'de', 'ala', 'para', 'mi', 'es', 'solo', 'un', 'de', 'pintura', 'para', 'ala', 'en', 'mi', 'padre', 'para', 'de', 'la', 'para', 'ala', 'de', 'yo', 'para', 'ami', 'la', 'mas', 'para', 'dinero', 'para', 'comer', 'en', 'la', 'solo', 'se', 'leer', 'mi', 'se', 'leer', 'la', 'de', 'un', 'err']"
"['see', 'suffering', 'disaster', 'petty', 'going', 'supposed', 'thats', 'right', 'dont', 'deserve', 'feel', 'like', 'cant', 'address', 'president', 'feel', 'like', 'religion', 'personal', 'interest', 'period', 'president', 'rude', 'wrong', 'chaos', 'question', 'loyalty', 'us']"
"['never', 'really', 'informed', 'felt', 'like', 'affected', 'stay', 'informed', 'opinion', 'feel', 'affected']"
"['learned', 'different', 'political', 'prison']"
"['yes', 'use', 'give', 'flying']"
"['discovery', 'good', 'grief']"
"['want', 'involved']"
"['used', 'never', 'care']"
"['vote', 'pick', 'us']"
"['yes', 'talk', 'ran', 'facility', 'need', 'pay', 'attention']"
"['political', 'time', 'pay', 'attention', 'whats', 'going', 'around']"
"['didnt', 'rightly', 'care', 'politics', 'want', 'whats', 'best', 'family', 'course', 'world']"
"['yes', 'broad', 'scope', 'yet', 'individual', 'breaking', 'needs', 'unique', 'individual', 'well', 'leading', 'often', 'right', 'place', 'help', 'beforehand', 'could', 'example', 'dont', 'believe', 'jail', 'prison', 'always', 'option', 'mostly', 'suffer', 'addiction', 'sort']"
"['interest', 'yet', 'grow', 'learn', 'self', 'respect', 'want', 'part', 'make', 'change']"
"['go', 'prison', 'scum']"
"['strongly', 'dont', 'trust']"
[]
"['jail', 'joke']"
"['mostly', 'dont', 'really', 'care', 'much', 'opinion', 'subject', 'matter', 'since', 'cant', 'vote']"
"['little', 'interest', 'general', 'public', 'say', 'incarceration', 'actually', 'gave', 'insight', 'real', 'opinion', 'politics', 'educated', 'old', 'school', 'fact', 'check', 'research', 'answer']"
[]
"['see', 'political', 'due', 'racial', 'form']"
"['range', 'none', 'sometimes', 'outrageous']"
"['due', 'illegal', 'cop', 'tactic', 'news', 'afraid', 'due']"
"['murder', 'think', 'wrong', 'speaking']"
"['cause', 'corrupt', 'county', 'city', 'state', 'wa']"
"['care', 'due', 'impact', 'life']"
"['would', 'like', 'say', 'future']"
[]
"['spent', 'years', 'behind', 'civics', 'wit', 'thought', 'cool', 'didnt', 'understand', 'setup', 'part', 'back', 'biting', 'opposition', 'within', 'political', 'arena', 'become', 'realize', 'beyond', 'reproach', 'adultery', 'privacy', 'concern']"
['politics']
"['want', 'get', 'finish', 'movie']"
['great']
"['yes', 'see', 'everything', 'whole']"
[]
"['become', 'moderate']"
"['days', 'loosing', 'become', 'award', 'state']"
['racily']
"['id', 'rather', 'share']"
"['finding', 'seeing', 'hand', 'us']"
['yes']
"['experienced', 'injustice', 'justice', 'system']"
[]
"['one', 'interested', 'due', 'education', 'jail', 'county', 'jail', 'ever', 'seen', 'life', 'time']"
"['yes', 'vote', 'dont', 'vote', 'cant', 'complain']"
"['feel', 'like']"
"['every', 'day', 'learning', 'experience']"
"['like', 'everything', 'political', 'feel', 'everything']"
"['dont', 'answer']"
"['want', 'part', 'world', 'make']"
"['think', 'need', 'exercise']"
"['ever', 'since', 'let', 'nigger', 'become', 'country', 'went']"
"['think', 'everything', 'since', 'locked']"
"['political', 'mostly', 'legal', 'system', 'experienced', 'hand', 'sad', 'say', 'experience', 'shown', 'legal', 'system', 'flawed', 'foundation', 'turn', 'hold', 'little', 'faith', 'justice', 'system', 'rehabilitate', 'reincorporate', 'society', 'contrary', 'experience', 'shown', 'government', 'easier', 'already', 'offended', 'return', 'prison', 'fashion', 'revolving', 'door', 'found', 'becoming', 'victim', 'recidivism', 'one', 'incarceration', 'commit', 'crime', 'however', 'serve', 'sentence', 'turn', 'payed', 'debt', 'society', 'dont', 'feel', 'fair', 'many', 'like', 'disadvantage', 'inequality', 'past', 'maybe', 'country', 'needs', 'look', 'crime', 'better', 'understanding']"
"['yes', 'feel', 'left', 'little']"
"['system', 'health']"
"['patient', 'always']"
"['watched', 'news']"
"['think', 'unfair', 'get', 'feel', 'strongly', 'matter', 'weve', 'done', 'time', 'feel', 'get', 'vote', 'could', 'make', 'dont', 'define', 'us']"
"['punishment', 'sometimes', 'harsh', 'crime']"
"['dont', 'agree', 'law', 'enforcement']"
"['corrupt', 'law', 'enforcement', 'court', 'like']"
"['become', 'aware', 'massive', 'corruption', 'inherent', 'system']"
['democrat']
"['yes', 'prior', 'prison', 'relatively', 'since', 'confinement', 'concept']"
"['yes', 'since', 'prison', 'thinking', 'pattern', 'lock', 'good', 'believe', 'nd', 'chance']"
"['yes', 'involved', 'see', 'hand', 'whats', 'going', 'corruption', 'unfairness', 'say', 'one', 'thing', 'dont', 'make', 'want', 'involved', 'could', 'something', 'help']"
[]
[]
"['yes', 'mass', 'incarceration', 'sent', 'prison', 'every', 'little', 'reason', 'justice', 'system', 'broken']"
"['yes', 'president', 'political', 'completely']"
[]
feel parole board chance chance keep coming back stay trouble never get trouble follow go school better never get chance parole                                                           
yes bit                                                                              
full                                                                               
never considered prison population prison reform came plus never considered socioeconomic predisposed become                                                                   
change life                                                                              
used vote would could                                                                            
made look way life differently                                                                           
importance vote good government                                                                            
see really care                                                                             
prison reform would affect criminal huge way facility discourage                                                                       
perspective different                                                                              
comment                                                                               
see need                                                                              
yes believe western democratic political arena failure fraudulent everything working towards fulfillment corrupt clandestine welfare populace also world whole                                                             
voting one forward participation involved make true change                                                                        
always known system perfect especially sight mind idea many live drastically justice system way fact also severely affected system needs overhaul along many need work together compromise greater good cause need analyze interpret thoroughly talk needs redemption change dont go talk find amplify good                                    
able look different set                                                                            
came prison yes ago didnt understand politics didnt know government conservative                                                                     
prison found lord world totally correct                                                                          
keep                                                                               
seen insensitive                                                                              
would like believe become aware social world general                                                                        
come libertarian outlook politics                                                                            
see politics throughout nation                                                                            
see side                                                                              
yes mouthing gig gubernatorial juju                                                                           
justice system punishment dont lawyer justice                                                                          
listen sides forming opinion                                                                            
grew thinking everything always clear cut thought wasnt republican wasnt right come understand times recession need democrat bottom economics order stabilize economy need republican trickle economics grow economy idiot like bush trump                                                
going put way much going days make think world end                                                                      
progressive                                                                               
different outlook                                                                              
thats hard question different political see different perspective prison reform biggest issue right                                                                   
never really attention going prison system seeing hand politics involved get percentage everything                                                                   
seen much voice factor                                                                            
army right thing felony see want best                                                                         
care much anything coming prison thrust seeing pain hearts given love want help plan change needs come way done see see need vote important attitude used saying goes change start                                                  
simple trump                                                                              
doesnt matter                                                                              
make great decision fit right place take care business lie                                                                      
sure probably fact lot older see much differently idealistic young girl girl always saw best really trying solve realist realize world never going utopia like sandbox two one shovel neither bucket getting filled busy shovel                                             
incarceration busy care since time slow without worldly distraction come understand important care teach care                                                                 
tend little liberal                                                                             
willing listen opposing                                                                             
president really done good job done                                                                          
different view                                                                              
gun ownership abuser gun knew gun house would never would never heart stab gun made impersonal easy quick dead also got locked school another huge reason want                                                     
didnt really political view coming prison never attention issue                                                                       
thought differently criminal justice seen unfairness many actually mentally ill locked without help need also prison rehabilitation like human warehouse many time serving matter crime given second chance third fourth fifth chance true second chance proven authority behavior institutional record deserve chance back prove law abiding citizen prison reform many depending                             
honestly feel anyone drug addict given treatment disease addiction instead several taken extra stress tend support us                                                               
stand republican side still democratic                                                                           
become informed since incarnation reading                                                                           
used believe system see much corruption                                                                          
needs change profiting us livestock                                                                           
actually conservative even though opposite would likely                                                                         
always                                                                               
got locked interest politics voting interest politics realize view vote                                                                      
yes understand make difference starting always told could vote know lie want say office want vote make benefit                                                              
locked different perspective                                                                             
coming faith world view political                                                                           
theres political voice speaking                                                                            
didnt truly twenty ago time positive incarceration age                                                                        
clear view thing mind right took least two locked mind get right                                                                    
since life pay attention everything going wish ability vote                                                                       
liberal                                                                               
person conscientious decision accept lord savior change henceforth according progression spiritual knowledge revelation                                                                   
young got locked gotten older watched horribly wrong everything gotten made want get involved learn get second chance able make difference                                                           
need serious wrong within country example mass incarceration homelessness hunger ever growing oppression poor public needs aware turned police state way political system thus conscious politics ever                                                     
way law works needs help                                                                           
could less politics younger pay attention news believe better informed make decision could care less responsibility taking care country country wear much sleeve                                                         
wish still                                                                              
came prison age die hard democratic incarceration clearly see democratic party used poor color                                                                  
almost didnt political view got locked since forced around different racially culturally many life many many fundamental us love want vote going best since personally pretty much toast                                                    
learned world work                                                                             
see society want give chance                                                                           
strongly felt woman capable running great country                                                                         
life chang see life really                                                                           
saw meaning affected higher priority see community need work achieve helping around us change see nation today used supporter particular political party support one feel strongly without rest political however tend look candidate vote one party regardless                                           
yeah somewhat would love see lot change                                                                         
raised trust raised church good home child married good man great thought honest lady worked us grocery store husband pa made theatrical play found us guilty never one husband dressed supreme court wife supreme court justice time given new trial received life sentence years yes political god survive sorry long                              
become concerned fight agenda hatred aware anti need nation stand                                                                      
concerned government incarceration government                                                                            
well prison never political family took political however research come upon research                                                                    
trump                                                                               
open minded                                                                              
think someone care willing help                                                                           
cause chance vote opinion                                                                            
law corrupt person white collar crime                                                                          
know political since came prison time offender never read book add raised domestically abusive household severe sexual abuse boy scout leader didnt know believe world certainly politics concerned prison would survive facing life without parole emotionally wasnt place contemplate power outside hurt similar took able share truth lead begin discover consider would someone shaping legislation think fighting learn grow inner belief fight keep government growing               
dont vote complain life vote chance                                                                          
still dislike politics general see doesnt                                                                          
prison sentence see system faith get right                                                                         
become conservative although believe need receive assistance life immoral one suffer hunger                                                                    
interested politics                                                                              
political since grown lot since taught think                                                                         
news comes either talking mass shooting assault police shot another unarmed                                                                     
need                                                                               
war politics trying become peaceful united                                                                          
go hand hand like ignorance fear walk hand hand part law reform money law legal well thing world better found done involved foundational thing nation great right put action voting thing                                                 
pay attention politics understand good point comes particular political                                                                       
question                                                                               
used mostly liberal conservative                                                                            
sober going really                                                                             
use think prison right vote                                                                           
longer believe life offense unusually brutal depraved either sentence death allow chance rehabilitation criminal justice system poorly ran system affect                                                            
didnt care politics                                                                             
pay attention politics since                                                                            
totally different system thought system fair righteous bigger lock simply dont prosecute                                                                    
past incarceration aware politics president little thought rehabilitation release focus release black drug federal level providing second chance repeat behavior president trump forgotten left                                                        
way look                                                                              
aware ever                                                                              
trump                                                                               
would prison one vote never got never able vote lifer                                                                      
around system lot change                                                                            
gotten intense political conversation expanded                                                                           
since long seen crazy drug time anyone                                                                         
think prison needs seen different view willing try get voting getting voice                                                                    
almost                                                                               
feel like doesnt even concern                                                                           
yes quite lot however cannot type ill type anything                                                                       
came prison old life parole formed type political time imprisonment formed since coming prison even since death                                                               
listen                                                                               
know say want                                                                             
sent prison see daily basis inside get almost constant beat instead uplifting change able change get second chance life sometimes forced drug use would think normal circumstance believe anyone change matter done past repeat behavior future                                            
years old came never much attention politics since got older mid tend watch                                                                   
yes learned god way living                                                                           
democrat however become republican                                                                            
looking outside incarceration didnt know bad corrupt prison system truly daily skillfully hidden public like free world got caught honestly done something illegal wasnt caught                                                       
got didnt even opinion well lot                                                                          
care charge                                                                              
become consciously awaken                                                                             
past politics bearing also curious make contribution society                                                                        
become aware importance united need remain free vote country founding originally established constitution simple sure true never since learned lot                                                            
used care political see really matter decision end better make worse us inside care                                                                  
never really thought much got locked thank lot thing never really thought                                                                    
pawn corruption department parole dramatically                                                                           
made concern politics need express much opinionated thought didnt matter see truly know compassionately driven greater good                                                               
never really interested politics prison important                                                                          
locked really didnt pay attention news political time watch news concerned opinionated                                                                    
never vote party cause                                                                            
use believe lock away key deserve another dance redemption                                                                       
prison shown take away right vote take away real way change better true incentive political figure real reform know wont help hurt ballot box much mistreatment abuse goes prison helping worst society prison exactly socialist system would evolve corruption always find way coarse simply one specific point multifaceted set extend far beyond prison original point still                        
interested republican job hired                                                                            
think dont care true justice broken system inside system believe behind prison reform                                                                   
incarceration shown took voting                                                                            
political world                                                                              
seen used scare public public lied us example scream cannot let return true statistics show recidivism among especially spent time behind around                                                          
period time political                                                                             
see country getting ran ground                                                                           
maturity mostly becoming aware clue adolescent                                                                          
youth really political point view though strong supporter lock thirty five born whole value system                                                                 
abortion gay gun control government also know corruption corrupt police inmate thats say                                                                   
much informed foreign policy                                                                            
incarceration thought democratic democratic current term favorable thats kind wish associated party interested personal needs                                                                 
vote could make difference                                                                            
free didnt much think like criminal justice homeless border protection see really matter                                                                   
since see republican party curb ongoing incarceration trend help reduce future trend needless incarceration frivolous                                                                 
vote office community vote run country                                                                          
yes due fact political corrupt ways running country                                                                        
cause dont agree                                                                             
yes begun look reform                                                                            
making self country                                                                             
understand important vote would mean look kind president running country                                                                      
shown political interested individual                                                                            
yes want change                                                                             
never thought prison                                                                             
prison see different light see injustice done throughout justice system time structured fairly child much time time manslaughter murder                                                             
political view know try stay informed watch done                                                                        
though become political circus say perform office                                                                         
yes didnt care since prison learned lot understand vote also old got                                                                    
made pay attention whats going country much policy every person matter                                                                     
much aware                                                                              
prison get see society different way good see everything different manner                                                                     
aware systematical country facing separation dividing great nation political fighting common interest always lie replace wrong mind nation stand majority poor                                                           
wasnt thinking bout none political world cause didnt understand important                                                                      
use always coming prison see hard work struggling always make everything complicated                                                                    
well came year old boy year old man brink release                                                                      
never almost received death penalty opinion capital punishment went                                                                       
ran political grinder                                                                             
become aware hate since                                                                            
locked interest politics                                                                             
th grade education didnt know nothing politics prison know good deal politics                                                                    
aint period still question love much straightforward genocide                                                                        
pay attention                                                                              
identify                                                                               
much open tolerant see con man smoke screen politics thats afraid voter see con man                                                                 
political understand taxation without representation pay tax even local tax shown like dont get vote whether want pass tax build new jail improve tax soft                                                       
sense forties said lot aware world become dont change downfall                                                                      
time really study politics found nearly lie get vote ever promise also many government think law accountable suppose work even president united everyone know president thats office works rich powerful                                                  
informed less                                                                              
dont know                                                                              
around opinion lived environment long engrained nature matter hard fought                                                                      
old learned grown many ways                                                                           
came prison old therefore political concept family environment made transition male man learned individualize process study show thyself approval                                                             
watch news daily keep everything going world didnt watch news                                                                      
going around world                                                                             
yes experienced legal system know really hand experience                                                                        
dont come back                                                                             
know certain political poor                                                                            
different                                                                               
time study plus think                                                                            
used believe state system know thats true                                                                         
redder                                                                               
dramatically since able learn real face majority prison population understanding base political trying reform prison system                                                                
make different                                                                              
realize important vote                                                                             
never chance lost interest cause felon                                                                          
care politics due state country despite family works federal government state                                                                     
see used think black white time think political make lot way                                                                     
well consider progressive however tempered liberal crime reform seeing reality day day unrealistic                                                                   
see poverty level                                                                             
want someone office really best interest heart                                                                         
yes cause aware position life far mean society important society far making change                                                                   
came prison age growing inside made form                                                                         
trump lot incorrect wall stuff get stuff done course speak                                                                      
becoming conservative                                                                              
bipartisanship acting favor party favor represent                                                                          
yes                                                                               
free                                                                               
want vote dont stand whats right world continue head wrong direction much society us us look child killing get caught stealing selling time thats right need rehabilitation help learning lo live normal                                                
political situation wanting socialist government type life                                                                         
filled drug use criminal activity authority selfish many believe deserve prison hate grow sooner likely die prison see world different respect understand lot                                                         
aware political                                                                              
really                                                                               
didnt pay attention                                                                             
future                                                                               
yes use swing toward democratic side clearly see lot go morals believe republican party conscience god built upon morals found yet seem lost way                                                        
truly never thought much although arent supposed compare amongst need sort standard consistency parole board become second jury look around count made parole leave                                                        
pay attention going judicial system force dig history see worked political party made rehabilitative go                                                                 
aware importance politics effect everything everyone thus making want say direct effect quality life thats lived                                                                
went casual observer depth research coming conclusion independent moderate believe balance compromise agree conservative platform fiscally responsible lowering keeping government everyday life however disagree conservative ideology need hand necessarily hand somewhat disagree economical concept trickle effect repeatedly shown good go stock board much everyday working class average joe agree liberal platform government correcting society much leftist platform tearing government starting completely since political even identity liberal democrat             
yes become                                                                              
incarceration never thought politics                                                                            
see really                                                                              
yes much since political party                                                                           
thing best fallow closely effect                                                                           
good                                                                               
learned known wasnt really like                                                                           
look different                                                                              
sober care                                                                              
party would choose                                                                             
yes always                                                                              
incarceration didnt political                                                                             
unbalanced                                                                               
since seventeen year old girl opinion didnt care follow politics look happening hope see change help one upon release                                                             
person number vote make society better place                                                                         
given much attention past                                                                            
maybe age see lot propaganda exposed                                                                          
almost none left best interest feel grand utopian dream like affirmative action welfare rekindle old racial divide us left attention misleading like racism thwart common sense stem flow illegal southern border terrorist profit driving thriving yearly addiction death dismal economy left right track little extreme comes environment believe ecological differ achieve less culture consumption demand demand indifferent environment thats couple trillion worth plastic                 
knowledge whats going                                                                             
time examine system cant vote cant voice opinion felon got right change society forced live abide made men worse                                                             
well time really get understand streets balderdash                                                                         
young never chance vote weigh matter aware politics follow slightly used                                                                     
star                                                                               
used strictly democratic republican party economy                                                                          
fact try                                                                              
dont know                                                                              
use care politics voting incarnation believe make difference community concern                                                                      
yes see lot stuff effects                                                                           
well locked ten lot since free world would love able vote make vote count                                                                  
master sever                                                                              
anyone ahead actually pay attention plan supporting could mean freedom                                                                      
would dont like                                                                             
actually                                                                               
care get go                                                                             
came prison didnt                                                                             
learned government supposed                                                                             
want incarcerate rehabilitate dont want release anyone mass incarceration                                                                       
longer believe judicial system especially dont believe correctional system feel equal politically one outdated                                                                  
didnt think vote matter know better                                                                          
use care                                                                              
one made mistake life bad made mistake make right right wrong said                                                                    
respect pay attention politics trump glorious leader importance conservative family bearing fate nation despite opposition politically incorrect feel core resonate mine feel going look back realize trump central campaign also believe conservative majority activist supreme court service continually pay throughout lifetime                                       
since corrupt yes needs prison reform                                                                          
since locked education informed life voting incarnation gave different society                                                                      
look life really person taken selfish state mind come understand needs met one person one race one city one state one country making world place facing reality                                                     
society didnt pay much attention news since attention direction society going said interest let voice said                                                                
didnt care politics voting criminal justice personal see community never watched news read newspaper going world got locked become activist reform time prison justice system drastically part solution part problem help become aware prison help society                                            
view politics felon see lack understanding care                                                                         
never concern sent house never astronomical amount revenue wasted expense flawed system time went try change broken met extreme resistance fix anything also given time time pay attention political choose listen read                                                
prior prison thought world welfare awesome want someone role human                                                                      
taught become book writer                                                                            
cause young got locked didnt view cause didnt matter see going country want say dont vote try change shouldnt right complain happening willing help change                                                       
raised republican family side criminal justice system made aware need rehabilitation punishment                                                                    
seen much hate chaos confusion warped sense thinking twisted                                                                       
want vote                                                                              
came prison age realize society works everyone equal everyone responsibility                                                                      
believe length unjust one equally another also keep                                                                        
didnt really political prior incarceration know need vote way hold accountable turn protect civil fact civil watch dogs                                                              
change feel wrong view                                                                            
used lot faith government ability solve common man see talking actually                                                                     
yes ways president good                                                                            
shouldnt                                                                               
doesnt matter democratic republican much fighting going need stop fighting whether democratic republican tearing apart                                                                 
time actually listen trying generally tell serious                                                                         
time lighter repeat                                                                             
see harm president try work together one nation instead make investigation take money time                                                                  
went democratic really supporting neither neither help                                                                         
care know                                                                              
dont know really political towards mixed confused really educated smart enough know speaking political                                                                  
yes good cant vote                                                                            
uneducated political abundance informed necessary criteria form                                                                         
dont understand problem                                                                             
prison                                                                               
think angry ex con grudge                                                                           
time watch keep political agenda                                                                           
year thats good amount time yes political                                                                         
kept news political                                                                             
yes didnt nothing politics period educated                                                                          
care                                                                               
think differently fairness well                                                                            
look                                                                               
used think judicial system fair got locked                                                                         
yes years fighting unjust conviction knowing authority change law fast track justice                                                                    
learn politics                                                                              
full                                                                               
watched news attention actually                                                                            
star pop                                                                              
need justice                                                                              
id elaborate                                                                              
country trouble                                                                              
previously care less politics concerning incarceration never would example eat lucky even get water sometimes even grievance always deny parole time give seriousness crime death involved considered judge court double especially inmate stayed trouble also state ever pay left believe ar al two legislation start hearing even hearing lot never honest job hustle get like special food several cant like monthly chicken pizza would make sense pay small amount           
yes thought alright got debt president yes bad thing believe good bad maybe wife go back forth much need become country split need work together fight either become country less dirty person look closet afterwards sure sorry closet                                          
political want money power                                                                            
never one way another                                                                            
little attention news idea going politically world wide                                                                        
republican                                                                               
help                                                                               
interested political                                                                              
well slice system label like target back thats always seen badly like human take top make new effect yeah political take turn change                                                         
forgotten comes time time                                                                            
deserve built majority country number yet dont count                                                                        
wish could                                                                              
prison slow actually pay attention government put motion country                                                                       
prison vote help keep prison help                                                                          
got think plan future impact political                                                                          
never really interested government came prison                                                                          
used care                                                                              
mostly response election prior incarceration politics obscure distant part life occasion really ever president since incarceration learned law us used want expatriate come stark realization change comes inside dont abandon address cant leave country need work create better future inside yes follow politics learn strive get involved however                                
time                                                                               
believe important going world                                                                            
ways feel certain punishment clearly validate prison sentence moral compass wont matter ten think take away much care country headed currently dont get say care give person motivation much better current environment motivation benefit actual sustained change work sit around day minimal mental health concern kind change wont happen long talk nothing                            
better outlook                                                                              
understand person see educated child wasnt education received corrupted miseducation thinking persuaded make bad decision                                                                 
made choice commit crime crime dont depict flesh control destiny period time cost life wisdom government label take                                                              
see inside politics control                                                                            
see politics                                                                              
used didnt care                                                                             
care                                                                               
cant                                                                               
neither party unified bring us together                                                                          
dont direct answer                                                                             
yes different behind                                                                             
used care                                                                              
didnt care reform                                                                             
see big picture                                                                             
incarceration forced look lot different instance current president popular despite economy well                                                                    
made aware abroad                                                                             
felon crime see society us even though doesnt mean arent real real need especially inside                                                                 
yes think needs reform time                                                                           
never interested government got two see important vote right office                                                                      
top cause dont care modern day group communist                                                                        
didnt                                                                               
interested politics informed different                                                                            
prison republican republican frown democrat homosexual                                                                          
used think nothing politics care around                                                                          
dont us                                                                              
juvenile naturally                                                                              
blessed know god                                                                             
dont like president                                                                             
become political aware                                                                             
none                                                                               
part making better country personal reflection reform one realize                                                                       
informed social spectrum extra time given time absorb better discernment absent social media                                                                   
political since                                                                              
dont know situation see could care less                                                                         
one concerned locked like drug murder                                                                          
ignorant made male offender female confined serve longer harder us make parole plus dont get skill training go get dollar hour back working cashier store lucky                                                      
way democratic party reason would vote republican                                                                         
voice important know responsibility make sure                                                                          
look totally positive way                                                                            
compassion justice system feel country going ago                                                                         
ever one voting keep level sex locked promise write completely untrue responsible prosecute according involvement                                                                 
view prison system system suppose help make better person vote care us lot time little lock us make us work free make money us get training education life matter much time got                                                
know                                                                               
sex offender feel feel state look lot                                                                         
always say race thing come black president                                                                         
learned original political detail realize wrong                                                                          
nineteen got locked never understood politics like today dont know everything knowledge understanding much better                                                                 
news                                                                               
take time watch news busy didnt care                                                                         
forgotten                                                                               
pay attention political                                                                             
vote may one                                                                             
become much cynical separate                                                                            
concerned world going voice                                                                            
aware need criminal justice reform also need facilitate rehabilitation punishment better chance becoming productive society get also better appreciate social safety reform since locked                                                        
rehabilitation us                                                                              
get television something theyre                                                                            
previous incarceration didnt really consider government something control lost right vote really control government sometimes feel like opinion weight whatsoever therefor usually keep survey time someone besides interest hearing anything say politics                                                
incarceration see unjust justice system really                                                                          
see prison system busted state us nothing rehabilitate cant rehabilitate                                                                      
feel like become informed free world wouldnt time worry                                                                       
wish chance help create better way                                                                          
watch news                                                                              
yes see sides                                                                             
yes see rehabilitation need prison even go prison                                                                        
didnt pay much attention always working                                                                          
pay attention                                                                              
since lean towards prison reform trying find ways better release                                                                      
cant                                                                               
used believe solid reason vote mostly seen political ulterior sad best interest heart understand cant make everyone whats important cause                                                            
since notice way thinking many describe entitlement merely want blame government hold accountable                                                                   
somewhat                                                                               
unsure                                                                               
wow see although still try listen trust like trump dad doesnt mind completely made opinion                                                                 
opposed execution came also believe need line                                                                         
yah see bigger picture                                                                            
vote could help                                                                             
judicial system poison                                                                             
didnt really care                                                                             
made better men                                                                             
never much attention politics                                                                            
yes                                                                               
good place id rather family sooner get better                                                                        
none                                                                               
yes prison federal state said use yet fed bottom barrel housing poor hardly works force proper paper work paint rust fungus show money hurt medical attempt sue paper work works                                                  
spent time following politics country                                                                           
used didnt care see effect everyone                                                                          
never really anything politics seen democratic party president time took office democratic party done everything power undermine never stick foot mouth times force place protect office democratic party beginning found necessary fight beginning never                                              
much aware financial personal legal war crime destructive tough crime full third population criminal justice system prison industrial complex many possible monetary compensation                                                         
watched news informed                                                                             
interest                                                                               
understanding since imprisonment                                                                             
living different real                                                                             
yes believe vote change way ran                                                                          
want better                                                                              
look politician might help prison                                                                           
become aware race white debt march nation                                                                         
since political lot realize offense opportunity reform get systematic governing private businessman profiting                                                                   
feel justice system unfair                                                                            
accused crime put prison really thinking real someone gains office could cause thing mind money public make new way look good public eye let unscrupulous district look pad conviction rate look good election make life better expense                                           
hefty ugh                                                                              
severe corruption needs removed county tax collection official law                                                                       
knowledge wisdom lot definitely lot                                                                           
yes know government right                                                                            
dont care little person                                                                            
understand meeting new                                                                             
political prior incarceration id never established constitutional applied ethnic                                                                       
finally see jail prison getting different due race background natural                                                                      
whole justice system prisoner reformation desperate need reformation say least                                                                      
interest prison reform rehabilitation                                                                            
see sides sides                                                                             
yes see abroad society                                                                            
informed                                                                               
learned politics prison actually paying attention never knowledge taking college classes becoming educated prison                                                                  
one really get done                                                                            
since political fact unaware much matter                                                                          
meant answer                                                                              
realize voice responsibility involved know going community beyond part make place fellow man                                                                   
never one                                                                              
become lesser concern since right vote taken away understand voice know matter world                                                                   
voting                                                                               
prior didnt political know anything politics living life came really self absorbed older world whole relevant                                                                
seen put together sex able parole guide ass drug                                                                       
know important                                                                              
since white nationalist due prison                                                                           
think older drug get correct treatment                                                                          
paying attention                                                                              
yes                                                                               
learned due reading                                                                             
well used democrat republican                                                                            
made realize government doesnt care us money                                                                         
chance vote would try help change longer term                                                                        
truth                                                                               
option also                                                                              
aware want voice                                                                             
seen nothing injustice corruption                                                                            
didnt really understand political view afterwards familiar                                                                         
learned justice system crooked really dont care go threw feel though falsely giving us better help us return world                                                             
always democratic party wise days ever                                                                          
yes                                                                               
political strongly believe everyone right freedom speech matter come current life                                                                     
want administration prison reform got allegedly beating man year old daughter never trouble                                                                   
wiser humble closer god                                                                            
coming prison really think important vote even care going government time sit back watch goes know citizen important let want known charge                                                          
actually get sit see world really                                                                          
aware need prison reform                                                                            
strong bulling                                                                              
would agreed would                                                                             
care                                                                               
five turned old didnt care voting wrapped dull pain childhood trauma worry political though prison realize greatly affected political climate spent legal assistant certification law standing civil men like case th circuit court number use unpaid prisoner labor depending source pay labor also lawsuit prison mail policy violative equivalent st amendment came prison wouldnt even known another civil                      
looking ferry gun                                                                             
understand vote thats like bad condition allow vote since know also                                                                     
time pay attention politics                                                                            
want office know trying make help get prison help find work housing start new life                                                                 
since able keep news look believe bigger picture possible choose represent us                                                                    
privilege walk grounds also walk still safety                                                                         
never attention politics directly                                                                            
continue                                                                               
look better                                                                              
hustler go make way way racial big prime era serving yes convinced                                                                    
locked                                                                               
realize certain unfair need tobe                                                                           
use think keeping assault constitutional right bear arms protect threat really hand gun sufficient enough hell dont need assault rifle hunt either mass shooting come legally buy acquire proper obtain assault rifle commit heinous                                              
look president today self                                                                            
pay attention                                                                              
policy government affect point view system                                                                          
make difference                                                                              
registered raised catholic town full staunch formed political bias young age however prison seen republican government take turns                                                              
different mind frame                                                                             
president trump taken president see lot disrespect left towards day one regardless president respect rather agree                                                                
yes                                                                               
dont matter                                                                              
yes feel                                                                              
ill go rest life incarnation                                                                           
yes dont trust politician                                                                            
career                                                                               
study history                                                                              
watched learned presidency                                                                             
see bad justice system                                                                            
vote                                                                               
yes look criminal justice system different justice                                                                         
yes absolutely best due mature outlook life keep easily persuaded since unnecessary hate towards great president trump done superb job president come got one nation country support respect president trump                                                  
wish would importance voting                                                                            
youth given opportunity focus entirely upon bettering previous formerly lived focus less political unless current position                                                                
leaning democrat sympathize republican                                                                            
yes                                                                               
used care much going politics government operating since learned whats wrong society today lack proper ethical treatment humanity greed                                                             
great need better judicial across country better                                                                         
towards less government control                                                                            
love country                                                                              
sure                                                                               
used say prison second chance system doesnt forgive                                                                        
made mature going country beyond                                                                           
locked immature didnt care locked grown want make difference goes around cant anything helpless country                                                                 
suppose pay attention world fact got interesting trump stuff prison focus future beyond mention future                                                                 
see new perspective literally metaphorically                                                                           
pass dont understand repercussion put different certain affect life forever law                                                                     
since giving life god view lot                                                                          
longer support illegal leniency residency status                                                                          
poor hard end generational poverty thus reducing generational incarceration                                                                       
certain political never applied                                                                            
yes                                                                               
daily                                                                               
change actually chance sit really see politics much                                                                        
us                                                                               
world black white prison reform since believe youve done time need full member society interact world stage nation dying slow death                                                           
pay attention political                                                                             
new political                                                                              
whole lot different pattern                                                                            
se                                                                               
never attention outside                                                                             
know side world free lot taken away us made bad decision put dont make bad person                                                                
need voice                                                                              
yes grown interested                                                                             
chose yes gotten wiser                                                                            
cant                                                                               
well since incarceration attention politics                                                                           
yes political ways important                                                                            
lot one sober think lot think differently way differently                                                                       
really                                                                               
well see everything black white make seem                                                                         
paying attention                                                                              
yes                                                                               
certain garbage                                                                              
made pay attention                                                                             
came prison staunch democrat tolerant                                                                           
prior incarceration indifferent didnt reason care care deeply personally                                                                       
dont know                                                                              
actually care                                                                              
yes drug offender less time never carried violence anyone spent life cause addiction                                                                   
self explanatory                                                                              
one care thats locked                                                                            
yes                                                                               
far concerned society well prison                                                                           
even affected place complete control                                                                           
sit watch                                                                              
lime one sided                                                                             
attitude lot way carry human care lot dont tolerate lot ignorance                                                                     
aware informed political want active reform get                                                                         
care                                                                               
family                                                                               
see many                                                                              
would like explain life situation help                                                                          
previous democratic party since convinced political process us nothing complex scheme economical military agenda white slave                                                                
look world                                                                              
hand view corruption money like unit watched black begging medical assistance watched pain medication surgical given instead legally disabled forced work medication medical care withheld attorney back                                                     
want vote provide rehabilitative mentally ill                                                                          
yes know matter voice responsibility stand future                                                                         
think country gone                                                                             
judicial system                                                                              
past would vote democratic set back listen person speaking instead house party cause mind day really house every self                                                             
since incarceration given life                                                                            
someone formed ill informed based try take information issue whole                                                                      
learned count                                                                              
become involved politics                                                                             
mostly aged become clear                                                                            
never taken time listen going around last time well hearing concerning                                                                     
nothing prison                                                                              
government going wrong way                                                                            
yes cause fact id related anyone political money id got long sentence yes hire judge court                                                                
yes                                                                               
yes keep news trump really good job                                                                         
rich get justice poor go prison property                                                                         
order free world society change uprise betterment youth final future                                                                      
guess since younger really could careless president united ran office prison grown see future even next generation politics would change better worse                                                          
find self informed political purpose yes                                                                          
need know truth hide prison                                                                           
use support democratic party much split                                                                          
didnt politics                                                                              
didnt know broken justice system                                                                           
aware                                                                               
much                                                                               
good                                                                               
saw man get prison simple possession drug paraphernalia charge stuck attack soon laid intake bag society drug addict system must end                                                           
believe person visit prison united least spent time system actually know go                                                                    
used                                                                               
way done                                                                              
cause choice                                                                              
used think                                                                              
watching political understand happening government well going country economy                                                                       
yes                                                                               
would never vote democratic reason                                                                           
didnt listen watch politics got seeing injustice system firsthand made want learn make                                                                   
free                                                                               
interested                                                                               
made lose interest hope politics                                                                           
see really political behalf                                                                            
raised democrat always thought black best interest heart strike law prison litigation reform welfare reform entire race                                                               
somewhat                                                                               
done good deal helping see good                                                                          
considered libertarian                                                                              
turned republican due racism                                                                            
one dont matter know us bull crap going pay                                                                       
gun control                                                                              
lost everything financially time                                                                            
really didnt pay much attention hear see free though made money control                                                                    
pay attention whats going voting                                                                           
pay attention politics                                                                             
lot time sit watch news get better understanding whats happening world                                                                     
educated rely say look rely opinion                                                                          
think pay attention goes political class directly effects family                                                                       
could vote could make little better                                                                          
incarceration didnt care political                                                                            
money                                                                               
learning                                                                               
grown understand politics                                                                             
world evil                                                                              
see corruption actually                                                                             
way                                                                               
social                                                                               
victim corrupt justice system realize importance justice reform state                                                                       
realize charge make better worse                                                                           
yes                                                                               
used think prison could vote feel lot different                                                                        
cant see question                                                                             
answer last essay                                                                             
want prison justice system better                                                                           
yes matter race believe deserved vote life ways educated life cant teach said feel vote point important one may different life may                                                          
really sit stop long enough really think happening around world god sat work see whats going around learned whole lot thats live world live make brokenness determine come                                                    
trump taken office sense                                                                            
feel president leading us toward world war                                                                         
less liberal                                                                              
libertarian anyway greater understanding political lens                                                                          
realizing vote would inspired try get back vote                                                                        
sure                                                                               
see                                                                               
parole board keeping us away family court parole rolling prison                                                                      
aware                                                                               
yes want someone office care make change prison reform justice system                                                                     
convinced republican ways better                                                                            
yes used republican since trump took office                                                                         
made feel like left without voice politics formed formed world us live                                                                    
yep                                                                               
since president openly reason terrorist openly singles black going start something going destroy majority gas small especially many live inside think night sleeping building gas connected use foreign telling nice chunk gas us thats lot burning decide start saying                                         
get talk like                                                                             
yes majority president since presidential division society made normal lie play blame shift game operate position double self awareness reason simple used grown become wise certain automatically added                                                    
become liberal                                                                              
hand bench brick try urgency                                                                           
nobody ever anything                                                                             
election watched media tell one lie another watched media get insane passing day refuse accept lost never political fact could told difference democratic republican far tell term democratic dangerous mental disorder                                                 
governing addiction drug education however drug thrown prison harder time getting sex offender                                                                   
human                                                                               
help fight crime                                                                             
since become informed concerned direction country heading                                                                         
came prison never really put lot effort politics time really see work understand prison industry politics                                                                
big political person free                                                                            
governor                                                                               
yes see running country                                                                            
criminal could always lot conservative per say                                                                         
reason feel getting harder lockup                                                                           
yes think hold office need job                                                                          
havent                                                                               
much us                                                                              
want able vote able say                                                                           
care                                                                               
reading lot feel like whoever create help us debt charge                                                                      
want voice fairness criminal                                                                            
yes subjected prison civil didnt think prison effects prison release                                                                      
way thinking                                                                              
dont known                                                                              
wasnt interested politics didnt care community want positive productive member society day care world especially country                                                                
government clue less reform                                                                            
watching news                                                                              
way government                                                                              
cant vote would love interest                                                                           
educated view                                                                              
victim corrupted justice system realize important prison reform                                                                        
yes see country                                                                             
little aware                                                                              
follow political since however feel like felon say                                                                        
never many needlessly realize much racism hatred toward little know much human taken country                                                                  
attention going never really much felon right right                                                                        
used think vote wouldnt matter one bit rich want someone office matter many little theyre still going put want office regardless unjustly mainly opinion want express ever whole entire life taken twice man life taking lost father lost nd husband massive heart attack sleep job work much need try correct life need say family person may may voice freedom hopefully soon resourceful                  
used interest politics mainly see half belong behind way effect many mine many                                                                   
pay attention                                                                              
learned lower class chosen live way reason racial                                                                        
think president trump economic growth great deal                                                                         
never know happen                                                                             
yes matter vote tell think want hear presidential race lie important vote actuality little last election received popular trump electoral college trump dont tell even dont come stand rain freezing weather president still going                                              
want freedom                                                                              
yes like expressed                                                                             
situation still confused                                                                             
would like help find better way help stay                                                                        
new political                                                                              
need help outside source state                                                                           
care aware whats going                                                                            
never much politics stuck prison dealing parole offender nice keep trying find help well deserve get help need seen far dont much voice comes political standpoint                                                      
honest prison never thought political effects daily life                                                                        
prison keep giving year keep get money tink need law let date comes give year keep prison                                                               
want apart society                                                                             
attention                                                                               
attention government going world side                                                                           
really dont matter pick ever want office                                                                         
never knew revolving door know parole set fail system                                                                       
given opportunity knowledge civic duty                                                                           
one day get bite                                                                            
made see country                                                                             
learned different                                                                              
president parole matter back ground                                                                           
become interested feel become affected                                                                           
feel opinion drug considered worst sex                                                                          
yes open                                                                              
mad                                                                               
matter                                                                               
yes never get involved election fill election sheriff would                                                                       
exposed true nature criminal justice reform actually platform win never actually upon back prison industrial complex                                                                
well didnt use care                                                                            
interest                                                                               
change                                                                               
pay attention                                                                              
really get see whats going world                                                                          
seeing real damage politics country                                                                           
yes painfully aware impact lack effects us                                                                         
understand use                                                                              
lot need made system wont even listen point view system dont know whats good much less improve                                                               
seen front crooked                                                                             
trump didnt care watching trump everyone needs care cause                                                                       
tuff                                                                               
see lot stuff didnt see                                                                           
aware much politics roll life individually like never                                                                        
mainly simple fact actually watching news distracted work paying social really thankful along aware political country also aware self working prison actually great opportunity done right right would guess even inmate population actually getting anything another full potential possible course want truly best                                     
incarceration needs closely                                                                             
pay                                                                               
would like someone stand right think person unless crime murder rape                                                                     
didnt keep much news see every opinion important country needs                                                                      
kind hate country drug rather give us actual treatment money tax income doesnt fix anything locked away petty drug crime surrounded worse taught made new drug addiction still left untreated                                                  
see damage nation                                                                             
realizing working together unit get accomplished pace power                                                                        
like need help prison                                                                            
hard time power right                                                                            
since lots time propaganda discuss like indulge time law library know would never plead guilty bully us undermine us us lots prison time make conviction rate go                                                     
come attention care money                                                                            
face ugly fact well cost financial gain take precedence whats right wrong politics shorter definition smoke                                                                
science                                                                               
justice reform                                                                              
lot aware                                                                              
never attention tell bad country danger                                                                          
see totally sober view instead high                                                                          
world                                                                               
never yes                                                                              
tired seeing country way                                                                            
yes                                                                               
way system ran                                                                             
yes naive incarceration didnt care                                                                           
yes criminal justice system must change better business designed remove without voice use                                                                   
republican since see divisive republican party party                                                                         
yes become aware need reform prison rehabilitation advantage                                                                        
well general pretty consistent specific largely                                                                          
used totally democratic thinking three plus incarceration middle like republican                                                                      
yes absolutely never political prior conviction multiple life life political fighting system behalf unjust                                                                  
well locked focus politics jail                                                                           
well get told happen arent said like really time dont stand                                                                     
yes due                                                                              
shouldnt double jeopardy taken care ago county needs pay jail courthouse illegal civil attorney teach county lesson currently media posting social media support                                                         
yes                                                                               
sure                                                                               
se                                                                               
yes get                                                                              
yes vote since                                                                             
dont know                                                                              
injustice done inside                                                                             
yeah always get end stick like saying goes hill hill                                                                      
yes got black guy                                                                            
feel like important part country                                                                           
well yes used think trump good president reading newspaper think office                                                                     
well open involved news days think got say matter whats going world got poss firearm charge fault walking store bread neighborhood get                                                          
become far less trusting establishment seeing truly broken corrupt criminal justice system comes someone used immense faith entire system worked politics                                                           
know educated                                                                              
socialist                                                                               
way                                                                               
um see                                                                              
seeing hearing two different live tell easy                                                                         
corruption violence amongst much reform much education                                                                         
seeing everything thats happening                                                                            
nope                                                                               
better                                                                               
set say                                                                              
seeing hand system affecting society                                                                           
health                                                                               
pro went jail                                                                             
want vote                                                                              
way news president take favoritism certain party whether republican democratic                                                                      
jail dont thing like hear watch wouldnt streets                                                                        
feel like                                                                              
prison waste human half drug given chance treatment                                                                        
looking news                                                                              
involved aware time read view information concerning politics different thought process time involved active                                                                  
get different view inside                                                                            
yes ability see tax lied gain wouldnt werent propaganda fed therefore causing make allow otherwise wouldnt                                                                
jail wasnt informed whats going world read paper much possible like know whats going                                                                  
well since number dont agree                                                                           
love                                                                               
become aware interested since                                                                            
think concerning counter intuitive ab made prison mean going prison getting time serious turn less actual time                                                               
see different view                                                                             
longer feel live dream record college education useless future employment court result feel like must try find peace world unable prosper                                                           
peace                                                                               
feel everyone right vote would full system would want vote                                                                      
need care reform                                                                             
incarceration many rehabilitation immigration control education work housing                                                                        
prison jail apparent mass effect one state plus sad send away got hurt                                                                   
eat get bigger grow                                                                            
well want know change judicial system                                                                          
thinking voting big thing system need experience average person knowledge power experience change                                                                   
didnt know effect part wish opinion                                                                          
yes want important                                                                             
dont know                                                                              
made want vote                                                                             
look world                                                                              
dont give us                                                                             
open correction court system public made aware unjust system                                                                       
yes cause need support protect                                                                           
minor got locked us think government legal system help serve justice help keep white rich safe get rid white poor mass incarceration                                                          
well part need unite one leadership needs racial bias need leadership                                                                     
many                                                                               
watching news                                                                              
political would say grown instead see streets busy read news paper watch news aware happening world                                                                
good good regardless                                                                             
used think like younger got older believe came maturity                                                                       
many without                                                                              
trump helping stuff talk                                                                            
always thought republican see news democrat                                                                          
us petty                                                                              
much bigger appreciation good impact direction country moving                                                                        
money stability realize lack important supporting democrat                                                                         
misconduct local judicial system manage may going prison rather heinous crime commit spent days jail given deal get deal wave days spent would give credit time whopping days wave days plead guilty something didnt year person ready get jail almost cost told plead guilty get time probation attorney said court room deal little know get probation going attend classes among class somewhere week range almost year expensive cost almost week          
seen system targeted would like vote political                                                                         
didnt pay politics attention                                                                            
seem legal system work poor certain                                                                          
well given inside view judicial jail prison worst like within inadequate medical mental health treatment officer misconduct inadequate administrative grievance process finally exhausting administrative pursue litigation watch news see hear truth face deception call                                              
dont realize taken away jail make realize                                                                         
decide applied dont understand much                                                                           
way interest politics                                                                             
much younger use say give crap world effect use say stuff like dont care matter still animal cage world go hell id still prison still wake still wake way breakfast cold lumpy bag lunch every day would never change even world fire would got said like going take prison going put weight piles back                          
yes arent fair dont agree life death life                                                                        
far left taken moderate left wing bullying deceit little survey tactic box increase potential remain ignorant                                                                
greatly                                                                               
many innocent justice system                                                                            
reason gun control                                                                             
dont matter look girl got mor still got go whit                                                                      
trump race trading tried put death row punk ass bitch                                                                      
yes know voting new props get let sooner petty                                                                       
system right                                                                              
probation parole make productive member                                                                           
cant vote supporting cant anything wish could vote jail                                                                       
made aware much struggle socially                                                                           
trump worst person president ever                                                                           
never really attention politics kept watching news daily know regarding                                                                      
come realization important society let voice political government                                                                        
lot happen almost everyday law sometimes affect wether good bad                                                                      
came republican middle class ant fell stigma thats party would best mind longer think like become involved dont listen one sided news support identify make beleave move next generation like                                                  
yes lack voting feel country prior made                                                                         
yes never really                                                                             
justice                                                                               
yes cause like dont care                                                                           
yes found unfair justice unequal court white                                                                         
way hinder us                                                                             
getting older expand mind comes politics realize welfare look trump                                                                      
locked watch news see whats goes world get make point                                                                      
important since                                                                              
become aware concerned aspect incarceration want know large scale fail many obviously done change ever present revolving door effect everyone met stuck like                                                         
felon since never attention politics could vote may able vote one day pay attention whats going politically                                                               
better man                                                                              
give                                                                               
hate government                                                                              
number locked house trying help pay little mind news                                                                       
news                                                                               
justice system corrupt justice system made greedy money state want make money line                                                                   
great state time mile going school                                                                          
watch news                                                                              
political change thing crime never given life disregard allow keep public assistance democratic hell nancy cancer say available good hourly wage homeless cant starve us us back reform making easier long term get second chance become somewhat said god bless                                        
feel politics far impact freedom                                                                           
yes think pertain come much general thing                                                                         
see hand voice silenced belive prison population would equal would vote towards unholy kingdom                                                                  
yes following news since jail                                                                           
paying closer attention world                                                                            
current president chamber advocate trump icon                                                                          
pay attention happening country state federal county city fix country still much racism exist country government                                                                
repeated offender strike self defence men tried rape self defence law victim sexual domestic respond society much different one victim experienced life time old                                                        
never thus never concerned political rehabilitation currently jail concern political awaken party                                                                    
treatment                                                                               
yes get effect us well family understand broken law however broken law effect rest life bettering well paying weve get back citizen beautiful country pay help make help better country would know better someone bottom                                             
use care political drama since last incarceration taking interest                                                                       
sent state prison local ten without proper ways house us education ways get personally think even yrs local jail right make education local prison term treatment state prison us gate money us nothing                                               
getting better                                                                              
maybe                                                                               
get see hand carelessness                                                                            
like said made                                                                             
never use care                                                                             
wont voice                                                                              
didnt think criminal justice system major process hand moderately aware see criminal justice system power loop justify shady tactics maximize conviction problem led early actually dangerous paying price swelling prison                                                  
si para                                                                              
well feel since vote wont count much                                                                         
yes politics variety politics racial                                                                           
hurt stole one person wronged free                                                                          
example trump went office stock market dow went everything except many size fit inside state prison money become slave thing reform blind justice                                                         
reason based fresno county want make valley men sick tired like suspect ex made poor feel lot men spot                                                             
get different side story overall decision                                                                          
many happening little say president pay attention ower thats going around eye sky use correctly                                                                 
yes                                                                               
dont us best heart                                                                            
well thing wrong                                                                             
way system correctional treat inmate poorly un shouldnt aloud                                                                       
need gang task                                                                             
care prison reform                                                                             
would take way long answer dont feel like answer come talk                                                                     
wasnt prison racist black community ironically predominately hung become left wing republican trump country country dont migrate make change demand born want live accept stay simple                                                      
yes static like felon voter                                                                           
yes point judicial system corrupt ways especially county quick judge physical evidence                                                                    
change thing big business money                                                                           
like join one race thats political                                                                          
attention whats politicly                                                                             
yes cause part system                                                                            
younger lean towards republican                                                                            
see self whats going behind wall prison better green wall cop prison gang                                                                   
believe prison reform happen many locked                                                                          
didnt care much                                                                             
yes never really attention politics much                                                                          
educated justice system court took inmate side understand reality lack education unjustice balance fall upon population aware conduct stop court know knowledge power likely court                                                       
president got                                                                              
better light                                                                              
see crooked place really                                                                            
justice unfair                                                                              
due housing                                                                              
well dont know answer                                                                            
time see hand make want part make                                                                         
much build                                                                              
sure                                                                               
yes justice                                                                              
think outdated need times                                                                            
yes immensely ashamed embarrassed justice system police department public office downright pathetic unprofessional conduct disregard constitutional human become horrible joke thats close humorous                                                         
believe needs someone doc fair example offender prison fire came offender prison term county jail fire camp even make sence fire camp time willing learn change program county jail prison term                                                 
informed                                                                               
always told aloud vote                                                                            
seeing amount getting serving time minor parole probation made question whole justice                                                                    
need vote end                                                                             
awaken understanding judicial system cruel unusual punishment locked cell hours hour crime commit reason scare tactics used da interest better county conviction rate know criminal                                                       
feel less vote feel like outcast                                                                          
change somewhat                                                                              
interested                                                                               
way                                                                               
long tie older suppose                                                                            
yes need drug jail seen many needs                                                                         
yes political since time sit back relax take everything thought                                                                      
dont feel try break say jail like everyone helpless treat us like shelter hurt                                                                  
least slightly                                                                              
system                                                                               
yes pay attention politics believe every vote count citizen united                                                                      
ignorant prior incarceration                                                                             
seem care much public                                                                            
yes                                                                               
think political candidate say feel safe need authentic leadership make radical prepare navigate                                                                   
outlook life always much politics trump person politician identify                                                                       
yes incarceration used believe deserved prison know result government system poor poverty lack social moral factor become                                                               
yes college learnt lot help develop depth look life                                                                       
yes democrat recently read joe view crime really hurt                                                                       
yes took civic course second chance alliance discovered branch government work favor nonprofit                                                                   
yes much politics affect life                                                                           
pay attention social                                                                             
used think politics play big role see watching news following politics change different voting sessions whether state federal national                                                             
yes learned read observe study politics especially process impeachment                                                                       
yes felt good country got caught system see work much different days                                                                    
yes lot tribal affected democratic republican party discriminate red race religion comprehend red human taught                                                                 
yes accountable                                                                              
yes political education higher moral religious belief system see attached page addition political herein                                                                  
yes dont trust never live say going black truly obsolete                                                                      
would like vote yes commit stop                                                                          
yes time listen conduct personal analysis whats real whats                                                                       
yes didnt understand different still barely understand constitution                                                                        
yes able see lot deceptive life sides today                                                                        
long story                                                                              
yes left politics alone outside lack understanding time learn great deal work always betterment                                                                  
yes generally based experience information prison experience enlightening revealing                                                                       
yes got politically uninvolved realize voting right upon hinge                                                                       
yes learn political policy procedure power dictate world                                                                        
yes tend highly favor stand                                                                           
yes never gave idea political reformist society wronged know innocent men past                                                                    
yes time see read pay attention didnt streets got educated political world                                                                    
yes listen variety news talk every day sometimes day dishonest liberal media agenda incredibly unfair filter bias order learn whole story                                                           
yes close attention government                                                                            
yes time made optimistic open new                                                                          
yes understand corruption self serving whole new light see clearly blur                                                                     
care rich poor                                                                             
experience treatment doc tell done help inside outside                                                                        
yes liberal democrat liberal republican                                                                           
yes learning politics                                                                             
yes mind us prison need parole prison soon                                                                        
catholic cannot support penalty reason devout faith                                                                         
yes want become involved political                                                                           
yes ignorance huge issue see us scum earth stay behind change political                                                                    
care really take depth look uncover done said view actually going prison system huge black market                                                                
yes trump time prison would help get mind right                                                                       
yes racial bias criminal justice system state                                                                         
yes got locked old unlearned know better                                                                         
feeling need voice opinion society opinion doesnt matter                                                                        
know true life know need help change young killing self need help change                                                                   
yes see need change justice system                                                                          
yes think reform system                                                                            
yes wish taken participation local election came state well sheriff                                                                      
yes conservative liberal since entangled legal system specific believe conservative criminal justice misguided also representative majority especially true                                                              
yes want stand little man speak make difference system truth truth hear say                                                                   
yes longer trust government function low level consciousness devoid love frank see framed twice prison since innocent denial see attached article go                                                          
used feel havent seen proof lately                                                                          
nobody care even person everything find way deal sent prison                                                                      
yes much greater knowledge political side life every vote right wrong affect outcome making vote important                                                                
yes would sit back assume worked since incarceration aware dont system favor                                                                    
prior prison stop bring law see hand serving time doesnt change rehabilitation change                                                                   
yes towards longer learned everyone bad                                                                          
yes feel like shouldnt happen another st time drug offender low level drug crime major drug                                                                
yes incarcerate become fund someone                                                                           
yes                                                                               
yes thought explaining someone abortion gay immigration told moderate whatever                                                                      
yes                                                                               
yes                                                                               
yes become aware criminal justice system needs well crime legislation                                                                      
yes feel lot go prison right brought                                                                         
yes nobody made                                                                             
yes look past current situation life look help us help love one better life                                                                  
yes never pay much attention current                                                                          
child came prison little understanding politics                                                                          
dont trust one need full cast vote                                                                         
yes incarceration led see firsthand judicial political taking advantage ignorance represent us ways receive activism                                                                 
always aware need criminal justice reform since prison seen need new                                                                     
would say particular political drastically due current prisoner criminal justice system corrupt country put microscope                                                                 
yes pay attention empty made                                                                           
yes understanding empathy lot respect experienced sides view lot idea                                                                      
yes see two point box                                                                           
yes state prison essentially lying resume yrs yrs probation offense kind army meant nothing                                                                  
yes substance abuse                                                                             
yes ill say since incarceration learned comes politics                                                                        
yes paying attention news gun violence scare                                                                         
yes new trump                                                                             
yes politics wasnt interest household since seen right impact economy prison never attention                                                                   
yes go go trump always problem reb                                                                         
please pull think information find interesting even looking fox news mason county prison currently investigation                                                                 
yes realization justice system flawed constitutional                                                                          
yes political world                                                                             
yes see new light never saw society                                                                         
yes would vote going help possible choice                                                                         
yes come conservative view shown liberal however comes state conservative ideal reason provide must provide one whatever personal would world                                                            
yes make pay deserve nd chance still get everything even trouble due felony record                                                                  
yes female like trash prison population doc corrupt                                                                        
yes                                                                               
yes end unjust criminal justice system seen hand importance voting municipal state level affect directly                                                                 
sure havent able read watch anything whats going                                                                        
yes well democrat                                                                             
yes made live view politics together                                                                          
yes voting passing                                                                             
yes understand given opportunity show growth change                                                                         
yes seeing many times state election really think vote dont matter put whoever want chair                                                                 
yes need prison reform resolved                                                                           
yes like space taken jail would let                                                                         
open blind felt higher                                                                            
yes see long physical contact harm ie child possession drug wife getting                                                                    
yes never used care watch world unfold us change completely                                                                      
yes see need prison reform inside                                                                          
become much engaged much reflective contemplative politics profess life live two                                                                     
yes impeachment president trump                                                                            
yes believe prison reform mandatory minimum priority many one                                                                       
yes seen firsthand unrealistic sometimes even bias truly change country best need get feedback help living want                                                               
yes                                                                               
yes sector society really never                                                                           
yes yes see politics us dont give us chance ourself                                                                      
yes                                                                               
yes liberal freedom choice                                                                            
yes years old caught charge unfamiliar anything basically way court room vulnerable sold ten worth gave years time ever prison                                                            
yes prison look different perception end stuff hope becomes                                                                       
yes dont support dont support law dictate serve statutory                                                                       
wrongly yet somewhat affected overall right direction right smart honest right help lead world right direction                                                                
yes hard find somebody fix broken world everybody always sell going get nothing personal gain                                                                 
yes political greatly hardly help hard find platform use unlawful incarceration new could forever change system                                                                
yes since prison chance really understand political world times found disgusting group race two always going left big scheme sitting supreme                                                           
yes criminal justice reform mandatory minimum state                                                                         
yes                                                                               
still independent major political believe right vote concerned                                                                        
yes growing everyday learning different effect                                                                          
matter                                                                               
see politics involved multimillion made chose wrong path dealt bad hand                                                                     
attention politics since become interested direction government                                                                         
everything false used think help everybody maybe theyre want push agenda instance take virus back thought everyone die mean days straight would deformed government cut check billion praise havent since smoking every day receive personal spending budget although start good none come clean know love money root evil personal vote                              
see country                                                                              
yes                                                                               
aware need prison reform negative mandatory                                                                          
yes                                                                               
due corruption went hand court system                                                                          
nothing never done problem prison nothing help build mor instead                                                                      
dont know                                                                              
shorter drug longer gang activity                                                                           
informed desire involved change                                                                            
well see inner                                                                             
never politics streets prison trying better much informed politics came trying better                                                                    
yes go back forth whether would vote democratic republican agree sides certain                                                                    
better understanding rule law family foundation country built feel power vote accomplished come together political nonexistence didnt matter know view change change taught morning star rise new journey truth                                                   
prison reform designed rehabilitate instead dand streets set failure                                                                       
life see side blind                                                                            
grown times set ways chang information available time                                                                        
really never much attention politics ex military pretty much always thought always antimilitary ever anything good actually pay attention politics see sides good bad well use lately try change us socialist government                                                
punishment serious prison long time                                                                           
prison seeing person think                                                                            
meet mandatory simple society begin see extreme obvious money like legal human government suppose faith rehabilitation best interest another human made mistake came prison getting high mutual combat fight ended coming top protecting friend intimately judicial system made hard believe running county state country us question best interest                                
never care effects freedom                                                                            
watched news                                                                              
since watching news racial status change                                                                          
well locked dog pound see took like news political wise though feel like say made mistake prison days see past judge easily understand time right judge us treat us                                                   
well prison never really politics country                                                                          
though prison bad know resource state percent hostage past fixed time                                                                     
time watch learn politics                                                                            
yes belief system thought stood positive reform together unified country looking rehabilitation locking better job training get welfare like would agree happening country sad seen country divided cant even hear busy pushing agenda hate trump four year term deal instead fighting could got accomplished country trump southern border secure feel safe deficit reduced instead spent millions                        
bull country trump                                                                             
really didnt pay attention politics locked idea whats going politics would like vote count                                                                  
us citizen bad vote voice matter                                                                          
locked didnt even pay attention care                                                                          
become aware politics interaction recent                                                                           
see importance candidate truly stand                                                                           
incarceration                                                                               
dont trust days hurt nothing always power next man never money                                                                     
seeing many poor suffer legal process                                                                          
felon vote                                                                              
yes seen mostly equal much comes voting                                                                         
well watch news often tune made political personal                                                                        
yea cause really want vote cause never day life                                                                       
yea                                                                               
respect jail system rule lost respect way mislead us amount time keep us put control like make law go abuse follow us like                                                         
sure exactly                                                                              
us office may possibly                                                                            
want help make change                                                                            
locked away notice change                                                                            
substitute seeing unfair criminal justice system inside                                                                         
yes see harder                                                                             
time around made view differently                                                                           
felon young age barley legal vote vote right taken away felon still citizen country feel count even tho black man feel equal skin color made past affect future bad willing change                                                 
see happening news highest discouraging                                                                           
since time think everything thats going wrong world                                                                        
race                                                                               
many social giving incentive work                                                                           
thin                                                                               
better life never behind whats rite                                                                          
didnt know freedom many actually state treat like                                                                        
believe better congress                                                                             
think political wise never anyone type office focus business everything heart office dont even care money thats days                                                              
cause stuff affecting us                                                                            
seeing criminal justice system make money care rehabilitation human outrageous way food given eat many suffer live                                                               
yea                                                                               
need schooling instead lock us forget exist                                                                         
see jail prepare leaving                                                                            
time sit watch news get                                                                           
yes                                                                               
yes sexual get less time drug need help                                                                        
lot without fair chance explain proper proper                                                                         
given input certain could express opinion effectively however mostly suggest new presidential vote candidate terminate current presidential official effectively unconditionally                                                            
unfairly black                                                                              
become republican                                                                              
want careful vote political wont favor class wealth race                                                                       
yes many                                                                              
want keep locked get around thousand year person locked would give thousand year wouldnt coming back fourth jail get one us jail person year working everyday                                                      
order form perfect union establish justice domestic better characterize us us us us express god give right vote support increase develop county grow inspiration unity oppressed combining grave fir common defense promote general secure land constitution united                                           
suck time make change self                                                                           
whole outlook life positive life dont like another statistic                                                                       
worried                                                                               
way politics even                                                                             
look different                                                                              
yes question                                                                              
nope                                                                               
hurt law fighting life                                                                            
yes time look political                                                                            
two know better party white house                                                                          
belive one                                                                              
watching news really gaining sense whats going country huge motivation anyone want better country living especially could possibly effect personally type way another                                                         
given far attention regarding nation state office main running accomplish anything listen pay close attention pray country far coming like never work betterment nation follow                                                       
unaware justice system truly running                                                                           
informed certain never attention                                                                            
well free didnt think much politics got register rest life know politics going effect much                                                                 
much attention criminal justice system everyone everybody locked nobody help reintegrate                                                                     
right vote dont care arent informed correctly going country cannot vote bother voice                                                                   
dont judge book cover give chance perfect                                                                         
going run way want                                                                            
yes feel like justice system failure whole help feel werent worried money maybe could happen prevent work                                                               
feel whole president thing stupid king father son holy ghost unless say vote president exactly mean know everyone less god everyone equal one person unless something probably care thing government fact try better world yet cycle exactly                                           
never really attention politics streets always clean year clear head believe important know going country                                                                 
political never politics                                                                             
cant vote dont seem fair                                                                           
life real party                                                                             
world since office                                                                             
didnt know much politics dealt incarceration till want help change vote                                                                     
never keep lie get position                                                                           
yes use believe much interested country                                                                          
even thou still country ran leader would count even thou made havent got brushed table cause right commit fraud crime                                                            
yes need active prison reform                                                                           
yes really didnt care went world didnt say today think matter                                                                     
different look world god made us                                                                          
right                                                                               
really                                                                               
used strictly partisan understand important work across aisle taken different approach listening government facing country registered vote democrat think independent                                                            
thing effect                                                                              
feel given right vote                                                                            
aware whats going country actually care                                                                          
spent time sat paying attention news impeachment came strong never sat long enough care think                                                                 
prison reform real thing us believe time walk prison forgotten instant prison number become nothing inmate matter crime sad                                                             
realize unfair justice bad us                                                                           
stripped long dont really give damn politics system corrupt many dont like consider justice none would name identity false media care much politics system advocate seen strong believer self state politics                                                 
way change since                                                                             
yes many smart intelligent would like chance vote even give opinion political                                                                    
think system flawed                                                                             
murder used hand gun woman part group reaching within stop violence group active member years different end know kill saved lots man part used send magazine would gun years gun would dye depending day ask sometimes wish would let kill sometimes actually gone since prison never hit beat freer ever marriage see emotion time beat never gun night shot wish gun                   
mor involved whats                                                                             
didnt understand educated productive society end prison fathom someone like square going prison let alone getting month sentence thought little deserved incarceration harsh reality living life behind                                                     
one rape child molestation murder get less drug enough rehabilitation da even higher rank quick throw away key rather help put money locking away instead trying invest making better money waisted could given chance find help rather thrown away chance could put take streets teach outside drug dealing street waist much money yet none next generation become better                      
justice system coming prison meeting truly amazing                                                                         
need freedom                                                                              
come say think matter                                                                            
almost four given get better education take world                                                                        
well inside looking see economy based background country supposed based freedom second hard majority society grant could simple made poor choice bad day                                                         
yes since seen hand corrupted system us                                                                         
made want vote knowing one vote make difference life future                                                                      
number place even pay medical office like sick call                                                                       
really would lick vote believe                                                                           
thought werent exactly true                                                                            
aware going                                                                              
feel pay attention going                                                                            
cant vote dont care                                                                            
much aware fact society become punitive police state rather restorative society                                                                     
time learn                                                                              
yes voting would really make impact us                                                                         
realize low priority inside dont get known outside make prison reform need experience really know                                                                 
prison didnt care realize attitude country                                                                          
seeing system ran lot plus tune going                                                                         
aware since sober                                                                             
learned want better world made better want vote right help make made                                                                    
experience prison oblivious core prison population adequate medical care prison fair coming prison prison reserved considered clear present danger society however sadly personal experience far many drug prison system foster care system another generation men sad approach taken worked                                         
answer                                                                               
guess informed certain follow                                                                            
system seeing close acting concerning trump                                                                          
question prosper help country best country willing sacrifice greater good                                                                      
watching news impeachment treating dont care self                                                                         
aware world                                                                              
want right change                                                                             
take making voice count serious came prison young think mature life want make life better formy                                                                
nope                                                                               
important                                                                               
need someone office                                                                             
taught important office                                                                             
much get get                                                                             
yes                                                                               
think get good time chance                                                                           
attention politics                                                                              
prison different outlook like racial mass incarceration                                                                         
yes                                                                               
know like locked everything mind world                                                                          
feel strongly president                                                                             
gun feel like kill giving right like giving dope addict                                                                      
learned little                                                                              
care really didnt care                                                                            
voice matter concern following                                                                            
didnt one                                                                              
system change remains                                                                             
watching news locked see stuff dont agree like world impeachment trump dont like way working didnt like going didnt vote                                                            
feel like tell us one thing                                                                          
amount time spent number due gun violence major                                                                        
political view mainly entire perception perspective citizen must focus certain might care one men want return prison regress crime order survive                                                           
despite limit post conviction found becoming liberal                                                                         
give second chance never                                                                            
society time still keep ways world order form valid political belief                                                                     
new always make brake sentence                                                                           
well know little bit works                                                                           
keep getting                                                                              
feel locked long money trying help someone                                                                         
needs change favor poor                                                                            
united faced multitude united divided ever causing lose sight real government supporting way used lot discussion mental health crises one root issue lit easier justify reason think something real reason race injustice another main issue dont think color skin experienced sort injustice life judge color skin content character believe racial discrimination fall system used many avoid real cause heart issue law enforcement comes neighborhood return arrest warrant neighborhood predominantly           
election trump political view extremely                                                                           
becoming political social become freer thinker                                                                          
feel important vote right person_ùä                                                                           
nope                                                                               
thought fair helping pay return know government someone political office automatically criminal greater potential harm ever                                                                
interested                                                                               
opinion                                                                               
time think                                                                              
used belive ideal political party ever since trump took office seen really trying improve united whether try inflict us want feel safe truthfully even though honestly say thanks republican trump want take freedom appreciate united                                             
vote                                                                               
well time watch news see whats going world                                                                        
never used care politics                                                                            
believe needs real serious look prison reform handle reform reintegrate society engage real social restorative justice part criminal justice system use parole set political system within country seen hand corruption within need better way                                              
old need get new                                                                            
learned                                                                               
understand voting see                                                                             
yes understand republican suppose according constitutional law front mistreat another country                                                                     
prior prison jail see easy one simplist yes hold accountable trial let get stop profit                                                                 
time think learn stuff                                                                            
political get upclose look mess criminal justice system understand mass incarceration also free time scrutinize closely                                                                
since lock see go                                                                            
prior interested age young age able vote something interest different person state country much                                                                  
answer                                                                               
rather say                                                                              
seen good side bad bad side good every                                                                        
see wasteful cruel system                                                                            
cause brake whatever nothing brake law go prison                                                                        
see better                                                                              
aware older                                                                              
whole different view life never understood justice system judges                                                                       
came prison old political around self politics decided live life foremost                                                                     
money mater                                                                              
put self around usually would around herd different mind                                                                       
difficult time expanding question                                                                            
watch news                                                                              
person time gather knowledge pertaining politics learn lot see lot thus change time                                                                   
tremendously life used left wing feel like right wing                                                                       
pay attention whats going world                                                                           
think politics differently                                                                             
seen sides justice system sad working government prisoner say one thing another word substance                                                                  
really didnt think prison population high outside doesnt let see see problem prison population                                                                  
used however really made stuff                                                                           
yes see certain seem screw                                                                           
see nothing year time everyone nd                                                                          
view need help sort way rich get crime                                                                        
person                                                                               
thank full                                                                              
made see look different feel like listen go along want hear think unless government giving something nothing good want fix get havent hurt see system fixed                                                      
believe better getting much time crime doesnt make sense                                                                       
since                                                                               
give one let even wrong healing begin may family society line good one side bad start power us power lead corruption made                                                          
prior like many prison simply rotten didnt know hurt often far inmate emotionally health wise financially didnt realize system also far time pay attention politics face else                                                     
didnt care didnt even know rep know understand importance country                                                                      
need bracket system easily play rape victim way keep ever get legal system card flaw engage sex year old god bid send naked flick chick child another way get conviction dont care walking locked rate take plus make look make longer                                       
nope_ùä                                                                               
see less squabbling done                                                                            
politics bunch trying look good moment watch news see second chance many think return prison let drug sex easy hurt man physically circumstance get nobody                                                       
system corrupt                                                                              
slightly part become educated works justice system help reformation reconstruction necessary sure call land free one prison world time dont give second theyll give law abiding least every registration parole system designed put back prison reason know guy parole making page seriously come back prison hell legal                                 
yes say want every vote let vote even                                                                        
pay attention                                                                              
el coco                                                                              
never took much time listen news going around time                                                                       
yes                                                                               
honest yes political regard much informed dont listen say able learn like current presidential really stand even stand believe country stand untied                                                          
used independent leaning democratic party find always seem agree republican                                                                      
use would praise took pride however refuse stand look rapist gang serial yet sit back show mass terroristic homeland                                                             
yes become politics halfway see                                                                           
see pay attention going around politics affecting                                                                         
political many ways one way inside fact mass incarceration go dealing simple marijuana child support traffic mention since locked tend pay attention whats happening society effect change                                                     
everything politics get older cant help think future like since weve current pretender office currently father absent life god willing getting face deportation country name imagine whats going young right watch news news side world current president nothing uncertainty never life think would watching news right future along limbo yes political tremendously                            
time                                                                               
yes time think sitting prison observe whats going country world world never really understood going                                                                 
want vote cause every vote put office affect family future life come stop office lieve healthy planet                                                               
dont need crooked president                                                                            
feel empathy struggling greater understanding like say world around also time think like prison reform                                                                 
gotten experience another dimension part population                                                                          
horrible idea                                                                              
yes tablet political science understand government whats going whats going like think theres bigger issue going stupid trump                                                              
never really used care government didnt think never really choose grow prison perception subject due seeing involved country choose pay attention country ran                                                         
dont prison                                                                              
prison thing weird                                                                             
watch news see bias different news                                                                          
go society sure political many different                                                                          
never political prison cause life wrong productive                                                                         
feel right person office could impact prison finding right person could thing hard                                                                   
naive year old came prison sit reflect got political based                                                                      
dont know                                                                              
yes believe opinion specially happening world                                                                          
wrong full                                                                              
since find politics interesting                                                                            
place opportunity educate governing back incarceration based feeling based reality                                                                      
look drug better supposed stupid suppose change listen claim help solve truth ignorant nothing talking                                                                 
never want try get right person office help                                                                        
seen hand prison reform plight mentally ill                                                                         
understand strive set fell cycle stays flowing                                                                         
beleave justice system needs help lots like two crime one get like one get everyone matter                                                                
hyper aware politically lucid justification whats right                                                                         
well time think                                                                             
dont know answer                                                                             
politics key role prison choosing side better change view politics                                                                      
come understand clearly freedom wish even come slowly removed dont even realize                                                                    
never really find watching much going never knew                                                                        
die hard democrat several later know party identification solely republican                                                                      
political absent develop aware nation                                                                           
justice system true justice full spouting like innocent proven guilty restorative justice side see get fact court already assume guilty well must guilty fit crime work hand hand together defense side left loop concerned conviction sentence true justice time crime nothing consider individual working really bad ever yet told different got caught havent arent bad made bad choice training sho                    
explain                                                                               
become aware pertinent never really considered incarceration                                                                         
went see inside looking view seeing really represent removing racial identity equation maturing wanting certain stopped                                                                
prison respect rule law politics interesting prison come greatly care world country state care respect need care make life country free world family future                                                        
yes keeping us helping us succeed get plus lot lot                                                                      
world live good see trying make                                                                          
didnt really care care less interested know cant                                                                        
didnt political                                                                              
wasnt                                                                               
time ever host wrongfully politics dont care actual justice think many help keep incarcerate evidence kind truly sad yes political extremely change                                                          
well place see                                                                             
gotten older educated                                                                             
fact world world                                                                             
never really voting much anything gotten older wanting make difference world                                                                     
politics worried money raise                                                                            
made see vivid picture enforced mostly get measure punishment also making totally disconnected reality impact oblivious actually happening want please party base                                                          
slightly understanding plight sex offender prison outside                                                                         
young young reckless foolish never thought think best family think introspection educated insight                                                                   
running different tell public going know aint going tell get support                                                                     
realize country pretty worried wrong                                                                           
well never prison yr veteran army never attention prison politics even watch like see filth unjustice world horrific treatment staff medical personal fact system never getting unless money fighting yet prevail nothing one must knowledge seasoned attorney must gain knowledge less year time prepare submit one know fight without assistance ill tell dont wing enough pray tremendously court counsel thing prison hope hope reach us hope justice hope dont die either old age another inmate     
yes dont think fair crime get different time                                                                        
much                                                                               
regarding criminal justice system completely criminal justice system supposed seak truth necessary provide punishment crime hand life effective life like candy however criminal justice system perverted desire win conviction pad conviction rate county parish pad status longer truth long prosecutor conviction care truth right wrong justice injustice                                 
growing black household seeing taught assumed taken overtime reading child even give benefit independent want vote worked vote                                                              
use think system seen hand innocent get put away look good                                                                     
justice system fair equal even political view                                                                         
dont claim political party late want need understand problem god everything really trying moral intact want claim office                                                              
word miss way felt drastically yr old man understanding prison reform change better getting longer dependent system safe place get hard control education become user friendly mean another criminal living next thats criminal teach man fish give one                                          
used care president long integrity responsibly would like see president reunite country achieve great                                                                  
care prison justice reform wronged                                                                           
see truly goes system justice reform poor uneducated suffer many times justice system                                                                   
watch used feel informed                                                                            
belive never want take mi time care politics time know import need try make change                                                                 
didnt care                                                                              
yes due fact never oppressed inmate population forced form capital punishment fair shouldnt lose right vote                                                                
never crime stuck said say bull kit base said crime puddock said got tell jury cant bull find guilt protecting body could throw book                                                        
yes prior incarceration idea impact politics whole crime punishment issue understand locking one politician keeping employed inordinately high pay scale mostly useless work spend awful lot money feeding helping wealthy stay wealthy bleeding lower middle class dry exceptionally good ways keep growing number order fuel prison industry clearly willing find ways get back society productive good example person murder perform nearly impossible hope getting prison alive yet average unbelievably lower recidivism rate group       
aint tell                                                                              
feel government locked us away like matter still matter                                                                       
come understand given legit second chance believe would success                                                                       
almost yrs since time world many ways open see world clearer ever sure explain answer though                                                                
somewhat                                                                               
seen political make truly effect prisoner system                                                                         
well since twenty old basically black president vote last time older maturer look lot could care less whether black white blue someone prison reform restoration broken idea prisoner change                                                   
didnt care enough political understand vital importance                                                                         
believe lot follow chance explain one many going injustice system brought new awareness broken never voter simply never impacted life love main havent much criminal justice crime punishment racism like dealing drug epidemic poverty homelessness like greater compassion men gotten know mainly effective hand meaningful treatment could say much more_ùä                              
prison reform lighter punishment pro think outside able see arent good us reform                                                                   
gone republican towards authenticity political little dont trust                                                                        
clearer truth behind politics example put person prison life simply failing register one reason ask support mass legal human often time received base tax paying                                                       
look get never get believe want hear                                                                         
gotten interested pay attention world news aware whats going                                                                       
open minded today                                                                             
tuned going country time sit watch often find going library                                                                      
cor                                                                               
view gun control                                                                             
watch                                                                               
see voting right see order voice vote closed mouth cant get feed need share portion need                                                                
injustice justice system                                                                             
didnt believe government affected life didnt care realize voice                                                                       
pay attention support prison reform                                                                           
want right person                                                                             
watching fox news trump ass ran female need taking right carry dealt thats watching damn still dealing                                                               
never really considered point view effect political one                                                                        
thin                                                                               
better sit around                                                                             
would like back                                                                             
wen come dont                                                                             
pay attention impeachment                                                                             
young dumb didnt really care ran country older starting realize much effect                                                                    
seen havent done far reform different outlook could done make better                                                                     
really think politics stayed                                                                            
prison time                                                                              
see society like trash real chance improve ourself correctional simply harass give us bare minimum tax us beyond imagination steal us charge us stole                                                        
society today prison like us better us say wrong difference havent gotten caught                                                                   
longer incarceration drawn bitter sick becoming trump done many improve extended ruined                                                                    
dont give us                                                                             
cause feel pushing                                                                             
seeing true colors                                                                             
wrong                                                                               
see free world think locked throw away feel close giving job save money able help get                                                                
due incarceration feel certain profile racism comes faze                                                                        
didnt really pay attention politics incarceration way state follow federal start paying attention expect us follow law wont                                                              
yes general intentional learning nationally                                                                           
decided direct affect upon direct affect cause pay attention law making                                                                     
shouldnt stop person voting                                                                            
prison reform become important issue                                                                           
yes feel still well good time learning                                                                         
made aware feel especially lower class                                                                          
yes                                                                               
prison shown system rehabilitation reform law abiding fact accurate matter worse charge care price comes long need focus prison system create better upon release well versed society                                                     
look much news like know whats happen                                                                         
impeachment                                                                               
young basically opinion older growing future future society                                                                        
one fund many money go tax prison system one behind scam cheat considered human matter far outdated                                                               
didnt give crap politics president anything related care whats going us handling every situation keep great                                                                
doesnt self agenda anything make kind money self super rich                                                                      
distrust                                                                               
thought justice system worked thought case correct sentence given case minimum play option downward depart various number one reason time offender anyway quickly learned system political slam dunk case deserve wish could contribute society could vote would research                                          
feel state know answer fix wish look weak make inmate look like real bad hope                                                                 
affect much civilian                                                                             
seem time actually see whats going world like seeing                                                                       
time seeing impact us                                                                            
reason understand effect us important largely uninformed                                                                         
would come system un fair live right care environment extreme way trying force us believe us worker rest despise fact us collude illegal us accuse falsely must protect second class bay little second                                               
system since incarceration come across wrong                                                                          
crime actually innocent become interested finding hold corrupt wrongfully responsible oversee think constitutional suppose protect poor like prove without shadow doubt dirty prosecution knowingly used false evidence obtain conviction turning judicial system climate corruption                                              
dealing politics                                                                              
lot even explain self                                                                            
trump got gas done country far gas done much country done country raise mention raise selfish trump also us go war brought back lot fir                                                       
change outcome sentence                                                                             
understanding one time                                                                             
vote specific person                                                                             
well think hard giving time                                                                           
able slow see whats going                                                                           
actually pay attention politics                                                                            
incarceration change learned much informed perspective opine                                                                         
learning politics                                                                              
see fall worse new ways tend greater                                                                         
pay attention country                                                                             
yes ignorant make business inform comment incarceration way become publicity stunt forgot point help                                                                  
president country distasteful                                                                             
see much ago                                                                             
see product broken system see hand forgotten population need help cage                                                                     
didnt know difference democrat republican                                                                           
living dangerous times former felon seen outcast result crime label hard get hired hard get place live despite time                                                             
understand importance prison reform instead locking                                                                          
yes locked research see much political impact country                                                                        
see bad justice system also many related                                                                         
never ran country see impact poor caught system                                                                        
didnt care happing world whats going world today want change change                                                                     
whatever                                                                               
absolutely world                                                                              
use found someone get stay behind                                                                          
much moderate                                                                              
think everyone                                                                              
strongly drawn republican seen                                                                            
yes                                                                               
tend point view                                                                             
well becoming informed political stance democratic republican due understanding economic situation greatly affected abuse government aide                                                                
wish know regarding state country                                                                           
used care pay attention care                                                                           
dont want prison reform make think                                                                          
understand passing certain target black brown                                                                          
collaboration information                                                                              
become interested sides daily basis make informed                                                                         
time think study                                                                             
said tried get treatment need prevent suicide eleven would received treatment little problem tea party republican state fight tooth nail every little bit treatment received                                                       
aware                                                                               
person                                                                               
know much voice would make back got bur get                                                                       
yes time sit back look world                                                                          
need make office say going office instead false                                                                        
side prison seen picture media painted                                                                          
straight knowledge understanding grown greatly                                                                           
truly wish vote maybe vote would make difference country yes                                                                      
much interested prison reform issue need better chance suppose department key corrected better return society role                                                                
feel towards independent                                                                             
yes realize government concern want help us succeed upon release admire trump stand prison reform                                                                 
unsure                                                                               
lot pay attention news political                                                                           
democrat republican                                                                              
god life many                                                                             
lock time look whole picture                                                                           
seeing different side                                                                             
id used think didnt matter going put whoever want office di see voice opinion despite crime                                                                
would like see change inside dont come back                                                                        
treat equally spend time court time get correct                                                                        
hate state done                                                                             
use ignorant didnt really look would talk whether trustworthy pay attention speaking homework                                                                   
system meant anyone even still going hold past us say send us corrected dont even look even better want keep us parole serve time legal system shouldnt anything                                                    
well instead voting need fixing sending state privately human                                                                       
throw anyone prison                                                                             
incarceration ignorant politics individual family could subject given day education gun public aid min wage subjected judicial time read sociopolitical informed importance knowledgeable involved making                                                       
yes used care either way                                                                           
good time raised                                                                             
yes                                                                               
think                                                                               
thought system help got trouble soon found case later life good good lawyer told government many ways set place come along something like house state rep get keep seat lower standing sat told quota must make example would plead sentence prison son local da could get probation revolving door move us want society marked even still dont help real fact system set motion always wanting make money lie dont           
number used political gain                                                                            
yes never really vote since                                                                           
innocent man prison something need one fight innocent man prison                                                                      
think wrong system                                                                             
yes never really thought race divided prison                                                                         
yes paying attention government news                                                                           
know innocent case even medical evidence proving male sex case found guilty without circumstantial physical electronic photographic evidence despite accuser never told tale twice see clearly justice system needs complete overhaul justice thought everybody deserved innocent trying escape guilt case see differently                                      
nut shell human race prison                                                                           
pay closer attention world politics still view deceitful hidden                                                                       
never anything politics idea effect political group                                                                         
yea news informed going theyre community country                                                                         
probably never get need help maybe drug problem                                                                        
longer care                                                                              
hate government want left alone                                                                           
many nutshell would say educated prison good insight think part process still tax representation                                                                  
way prison                                                                              
time see crap political system poor uneducated                                                                         
pay attention see different                                                                            
everyone past believe second used think different change                                                                        
trump best country since                                                                            
like free                                                                              
see bad system                                                                             
follow politics streets                                                                             
used probably majority though always actually innocent wrongly maliciously thats deserve well time prison come know many sons many prison unfortunately rest made one stupid mistake took little innocent made one stupid mistake rest life well get prison cant cope commit suicide become criminal whose back know comfortable                                
much tuned political climate find hard express                                                                         
went prison learned firm taught lot news                                                                         
time half century finally got witness someone like trump actually wonderful                                                                     
feel like ever since incarceration different                                                                          
feel pick side black white dont take time look best                                                                      
actually believe degree would like fix point would probably listen case vote                                                                    
always making better good time helping prepare civilized always helping nation better                                                                    
growing concerned community care president going next try                                                                        
open                                                                               
keep getting keep worrying wrong think time godsend important need done done instead dont really matter                                                                
government wrong                                                                              
comment                                                                               
arent vote                                                                              
voice maybe would benefit                                                                            
informed                                                                               
helping need government look                                                                            
one prey several manipulative tactics politics well vote crucial part political system vote take official like prison one must learn look past grandeur splendor order discover true test veracity said downfall greed discover certain suffer vulnerability corruption combine greed politics one discover really position feel critical start paying attention really said potential make rational instead                         
thought longer would help wrong help change willing greatly dont change hearts punishment system like society lock sometimes forget                                                             
always agreed see interested helping reform hate us also fail see lack serious need mental health research treatment need real help                                                           
simply friend since often declared reform found true equally uninterested real reform interested change departmental leadership                                                                
become aware importance voting run platform                                                                          
attention used think locked deserved whatever treat way realize history complex political system either value dont look past surface said lean guidance spirit inside open think feel                                                     
informed concerning political realm                                                                            
want make know state law every day benefit needs prison number slave                                                                    
believe need prison reform minimum custody need reduce prison population needs good time                                                                   
difficult politically country                                                                             
care office                                                                              
use think prison many without money afford real lawyer part wont go prison get much less time system rich poor                                                            
trump made country look bad                                                                           
yes seeing hand                                                                             
getting locked never really thought politics since watch news every day speak sister politics understanding much better                                                               
didnt understand prison system nation mass incarceration part system see daily feel would never vote hard problem would support offender change world change person                                                        
used believe fair criminal justice system right thing learned money power                                                                     
politics ever see power voting                                                                           
yes prison didnt care life could manage get damn near cant get decent job help stay line middle class scrap dirty stuff stay afloat everything need buy going price pay stays way long us rich better us smart rich struggle cause fight fot stance society                                   
become informed since                                                                             
yea found dont care                                                                            
ååå                                                                               
dont feel way far go                                                                           
use belive serve entire sentence experienced unlawful prison physically forced serve years day                                                                   
skewed toward certain unfairly unjustly                                                                           
watch whats going busy life                                                                           
concerned prison                                                                              
greater need support support stand firmly truth                                                                         
know whats real                                                                             
seen lot unjust                                                                             
feel like everyone locked chance vote                                                                          
used care pay attention politics taken time watch learn little also future                                                                    
cause see reform prison                                                                            
yes                                                                               
informed form opinion                                                                             
locked forced pay attention news general watching                                                                         
aware power collective voice used make felt necessary aware willing involved way allow                                                                   
effect us matter                                                                             
yes got lock didnt time politics search best country participate see voting make great                                                                  
seen different angle treatment face think petty offender serve prison time knowing full extent prison sentence would person period time                                                            
see cultural                                                                              
yes change dew long time ago hurt help percentage would help someone get                                                                   
since become adult rather say political would say political standing dont know exactly stand touch politics though                                                               
incarceration didnt since time inform educate many affect family                                                                       
know power seek divide us yet claim desire unite us ever one god                                                                   
become conservative                                                                              
political cannot vote                                                                             
less aware reality entertainment                                                                            
never part criminal system idea bad country honorably crime commit cried innocence whole time hit head                                                                
came prison young yrs old older wiser mind middle ground ground exist                                                                    
yes care stuff see important vote matter                                                                         
yes wasnt worried                                                                             
see adult time grow young                                                                           
watching politics streets                                                                             
yes would vote republican even though think would likely help religious religious fall towards republican                                                                 
find conservative days                                                                             
didnt care                                                                              
never                                                                               
many political give small petty time prison instead helping reform help productive giving                                                                   
sue think president dumb racist stand point view                                                                        
pay attention say saying something                                                                           
used every new weapon military could design feel weve built could use strength always good philosophy                                                                
didnt think much look face daily understand importance voting                                                                       
yes somewhat everything different inside way personally look politic politics like instead two main political like two big fighting territory interest also know interest power way might gain sort interest may right vote                                               
criminal justice system works rich famous ie comes mind quarter poor person advantage example court work trying convict balance poor get get country club twenty thirty days special provision actually prison                                                 
please refer previous answer                                                                            
clearly                                                                               
yes feel want system world put right make right system country                                                                     
bad prison pretty nice got bad got caught innocent need stay need better good time release drug                                                               
yes think less prison reform used look person crime still work dont believe locking everyone year old prior add time current conviction already time current sentence double                                                     
used naive view towards politics thinking best mind course could hold true small percentage attempt better power station majority power divided country                                                          
id rather involved id love teach much honor involved citizen crime wish could erase                                                                  
say politics nation                                                                             
switched democrat instead libertarian conservatism social aspect                                                                         
insight criminal justice system shown flawed much needs                                                                        
think trying help prison last time                                                                          
outside dont see really goes prison way different time prison see read                                                                    
know justice system works dealt seen inside also hear many see many                                                                    
although dont watch keep think differently would like see state country                                                                     
never prison reform coming prison                                                                           
know                                                                               
war                                                                               
chose vote candidate express never check back track                                                                        
radical left liberal communist scum                                                                           
give chance vote like trump never get office                                                                        
slightly                                                                               
two raised since day born got woman since high company amazing woman never thought would life time life political crime thought deserved punishment crime little know time always respect law country always still knowing lot situation crime never say hope innocence                                       
teen locked political led economist support catholic                                                                         
given clear view                                                                             
thinking great amount                                                                             
yes person thats system since prison reform could ago never topic discussion seen instead time push get high school diploma time kept telling sentence long get diploma finally able apply get imagine dont motivation keep focus opportunity better self system still training help thats whoever read please help us                               
seeing party better agenda                                                                            
grew time going generation back one thing thats always true level racism united like nothing little thing freedom expression fat office worried got money                                                        
dont care                                                                              
since locked able notice certain didnt                                                                          
strongly right thing trump believe right thing us left get office                                                                     
official behind mass incarceration                                                                            
locked legal system right thing see making career move forward                                                                      
see society underbelly lied would never thought would treat harshly based sex offender right next didnt treat different give second chance real second chance                                                        
knowledge many politic didnt seen ignorant affect life                                                                        
watch reading newspaper                                                                             
see need make incarceration also see sides reform previously                                                                       
see running county fake news come                                                                          
yes feel case made one wrong choice suffer rest life right                                                                     
didnt opinion interest                                                                             
never politics like                                                                             
personal view                                                                              
think raised united leave alone dont rip away united criminal something wrong get sent another never life life danger country                                                            
system                                                                               
system waste little prepare anyone return society especially financially failure without money                                                                    
cause way help put point would listen                                                                         
yes                                                                               
lot knowledge see                                                                             
need new president                                                                             
prison time opportunity reflect read self educate freed core realization decline inevitable historical event politics cannot stop even strictly                                                             
well used believe belief system based democratic perspective research republican                                                                      
somewhat                                                                               
seen political power world man come visit fifteen think know prison like rape mistreatment office nothing spend money learn trade get help need simply dont care                                                      
conservative strong attitude                                                                             
one outside busy involved didnt get really sit listen agenda time                                                                     
lost put us prison                                                                            
listening news                                                                              
feel lose                                                                              
family                                                                               
world change constantly                                                                             
everything got ti serve time done make money state helping fix bottom line corporation stock state take medical company charge us medical help company stay rate charge state flat rate top give staff spending money provided care make money care word state                                      
time think think would best country whole discovered value criminal reform                                                                     
prison reform                                                                              
become aware political world become open minded certain                                                                        
direction desire worry future ability continue living planet time thought humanity whole individual little respect habitat                                                                
want change feel like important apart change nothing time educate stuff really didnt even matter grew neighborhood never expressed stress us important politics                                                         
yes everything considered us                                                                            
didnt                                                                               
felon feel like dont say country right vote taken away                                                                      
yes believe trump deserve president power                                                                          
definitely president person thats                                                                            
reason war                                                                              
become aware need criminal justice reform                                                                          
see going country needs done however need stop fighting work together                                                                     
used think power bad general come figure thinking                                                                        
seen much really petty also think get away nothing electoral vote mandatory thirty house due extreme lack vote way anything need less extreme sided                                                        
longer judge worst thing done understand often criminal justice causing nominally designed prevent easily acknowledged system continent spending time close proximity dont actually like see humanity easier understand often attribute specific individual large part responsibility society choose treat mental health dont like remember criminal justice definition reactionary prevention longer actually think                             
cause time sit really listen say effect us prison                                                                       
another view world really gone albe live life without worry certain skin color                                                                   
becoming sober fifteen ago element behind answer                                                                         
yes would vote democrat talking prison reform dont interest lower class dont seem care                                                                  
time engage politics raised yet attention gave time brought reality pettiness even ever window madness keep past                                                               
hard find solution mass dont get hand view system                                                                       
never really thought political yeara old upon arrest knowing us top curious formed order pass came believe would actually gotten involved politics high white house material congress something make impact society                                                 
yeah look president trump got world                                                                          
cause one side prison reform pass lessen drug                                                                        
realize matter vote seem fail us way important tend make us seem                                                                    
never politics realize voice never used never use                                                                        
look bad compare hell hole modern day plantation wouldnt want better poor                                                                    
didnt care politics see need fot                                                                          
wish could voice                                                                             
never politics untill sent prison                                                                           
desire speak gain understanding strongly wish support political world stand                                                                      
willing help us system                                                                            
strong republican incarceration sides enjoy contract money                                                                         
see system run inside dont agree get prison get know little help get even weve time crime still get upon hard time getting living good life                                                      
start locked whole life old man look different                                                                        
yes                                                                               
could care less went world incarceration gave time never watched news thing taken away local national next president going change treat highly doubt mostly negative punishment discipline true discipline right behavior                                                 
pay close attention normally look good tone                                                                         
willfully chosen read politics government history thereof                                                                         
time become informed also trying make world better place anyway really country need change never knew growing government terrible happen us system systematically corruption low level doc various                                                    
see whats one likely even fake twisted bias politically                                                                       
longer mental slavery                                                                             
yes prison system needs graded help                                                                          
justice world                                                                              
learning represent                                                                              
dot feel voice                                                                             
time talk politics learned lot different actually going country help change                                                                     
since gone hill fast                                                                            
seen hand crazy say office change nothing better anybody except trump done anyone else since                                                                 
pay going                                                                              
didnt think important voting especially promote wanting person office believe reform judicial system properly giving certain lesser criminal history                                                             
become aware                                                                              
life went socioeconomic status sex offender prison                                                                         
becoming individual much politics group call reaching within didnt fully understand politics help                                                                   
yes crime commit even judge record saying testimony proven court anyone easily see given yrs basically going third base woman lied try save marriage inks rape judge said thought sentence harsh go set jury retired courthouse case several public defender cross stand behind trial strategy almost unimpeachable several small new trial corruption justice yrs able afford real lawyer yes                     
interested politics never                                                                             
lost respect system reform rehabilitation much money set aside education dont continue vicious cycle                                                                  
able keep lately                                                                             
many                                                                               
political whether republican shadiness either party really                                                                         
prison                                                                               
could made different                                                                             
look view prison job per month per inmate would help keeping prison keeping working feel something pay help side crime would go like bib leadership toast help plus want educate like getting degree cant afford every class get much start right racist certain let able chance life like mine wouldnt involved go try show proof finally clear name didnt want address court prison                 
tend see much right change wide                                                                          
nope                                                                               
love trump still could                                                                            
prone believe ownership also current drug incarceration working get different type incarceration                                                                    
also consider criminal reform                                                                            
watch feel voice inside prison system would change mind us                                                                      
sex parole registration                                                                             
attention politics sense incarceration                                                                            
political lean conservative liberal                                                                            
think                                                                               
used really care                                                                             
knowledge life political make know vote voice may change make                                                                      
see dont belong simple                                                                            
said yes seen little bit president political stuff like politics remember going try listen politics even try go college undecided politics                                                           
conservative                                                                               
yes change use talk know every                                                                          
st                                                                               
keep                                                                               
conservative                                                                               
support alo sin democrat                                                                            
comment                                                                               
point want know whats going country running                                                                         
lot time sit think conservative crime ever believe men need time                                                                     
prior incarceration political opinion strong desire reform scrap entire system incarceration punishment worse went replace intense period training correct habit behavior possible may happen thirty case join therapeutic last two prior seeing parole board department policy given free reign create plan action concerned many certainly politically active ever                                
consecutive lot time learn change understanding adult                                                                         
care                                                                               
want knowing never study get                                                                           
able gain knowledge politics illusion country count dont mean anything                                                                      
consider gun libertarian incarceration criminal justice system                                                                         
dont think opinion count                                                                            
yes cause feel drug get sentence                                                                          
one word trump                                                                             
never thought voting really didnt care politics didnt think affected see thought                                                                    
see much differently                                                                             
really dont know                                                                             
everything incarceration yo ill upon release                                                                          
came system young age old passing                                                                          
dont know                                                                              
yes much informed pay attention need get youth educated political                                                                      
criminal justice reform political sickness                                                                           
dont think anyone                                                                             
wasnt much politics may trump era political side general population                                                                      
health care needs kill unborn need look teaching weed crime let save united would let men free                                                               
use even care politics pay attention depending office big effect nation whole                                                                    
used pro death penalty also educated read news quite frequently                                                                      
believe one vote concern politics since learned duty citizen informed participate democracy                                                                    
incarceration really never attention politics grown prison read study greater understanding effects politics life                                                                  
see prison parole violation taken serious alone deal ignorance extremely dangerous life                                                                    
really                                                                               
believe even though president trump different believe believe done black ever                                                                     
vote                                                                               
used believe ideal system dont think government involved right much                                                                      
know care                                                                              
realization every inclination reflected refined world government domain choose live result voter according amongst                                                                  
follow political stuff often                                                                            
seen treat system dont go way                                                                          
become open minded                                                                             
voting better                                                                              
insight information time self                                                                            
none                                                                               
state worry federal finding example built new prison two man ten cell one storage locker two                                                                
well never attention politics incarceration                                                                           
word republic cant see going change time soon active part improve make positive united                                                                  
know                                                                               
never vote vote presidential really matter electorial college system state local vote state local                                                                  
prefer                                                                               
prior incarceration political pretty strongly believe really much say really government fear worse happening agree                                                                 
see dont know anything needs listen care give voice something bad happen                                                                    
seen correctional system commodity human inside saw see outside world                                                                      
incarceration favored long term across board support                                                                         
aware                                                                               
pay attention going community country                                                                           
guess care                                                                              
use think would democrat find agreeing instead like republican actually help                                                                     
apathetic towards needs needs fortunately become aware history facing today                                                                      
younger teenage use gay bash race bash little filled arrogance free extreme got older wiser sit back hate arrogant believe extent one able please within reason dont break dont bully help get know problem voiced simply dont hate gay marriage one biggest strongly younger                                    
formed nation way making best political agenda                                                                         
state federal god like control society censorship art control read watch eat educate draw create write look learn hear decide eat let us cause know thinking hearts know good us society                                                 
done accept keep mentally doc stand department stand corruption reform rehabilitation locked away forgotten                                                                  
well understand ladder change senate state along state reps come agreement common issue prison reform get governor everything process                                                             
used believe justice system thinking fine rape house wasnt two time got phone call come home sat county jail seventeen simply said crime court didnt anything said going even keep evidence proving innocence sight court even two day da even admitted judge testimony evidence whole investigation many didnt want disclose moment room yet prison crime see flawed corrupt justice system                    
informed give better                                                                             
public growing poverty ways                                                                            
voice due offender status                                                                            
politics time spend solitary confinement politics pushing reform help want better person help men see lived want change better also seeing politics affect staff important good office help staff know care day may self seen hand good change modify behavior think less willing harm                                    
ken                                                                               
learned republican party mass incarceration support private prison industry plus united punishment pathway                                                                   
fairness                                                                               
didnt seem sway either away although always agree also disagree much                                                                     
becoming familiar multiple even seen regional within country every way worry would otherwise forefront give understanding human condition understanding cannot help influence political self                                                        
impeachment president trump                                                                             
d_ùä_ùäo                                                                               
die hard republican life never partisan stiff necked close minded                                                                      
dont care little man                                                                            
time prison think view life open prison                                                                         
seen need justice reform hand long dont seem fit crime get come back time time time gone month see back parole violation new case obviously something right                                                     
used anti authority around bottom society long made see good us simply care prison mass incarceration key needs reform drug addiction needs depth treatment voluntary program needs available everyone seeking treatment wether drug related drug drug came back wasnt take participate treatment know simply wrong type conviction short needs reform                              
yes believe national prison reform indeed major disrepair voting fix                                                                      
see corrupt                                                                              
hold office                                                                              
become conscious important voice come human education                                                                         
person                                                                               
slightly education                                                                              
talking getting going                                                                             
think pay attention going politics getting better understanding justice department                                                                      
firm democrat recently become independent speak want corruptness fake back biting go away sad one side side corruption done job quit pointing someone else stop worrying counter part wrong supposed united might get done right way fashion                                           
time listen see                                                                             
always thought essential society believe punishment breaking dont think right fair disparity continue wrong cause everyone one concerned prison ran taken advantage system one concerned lack release need date willing fix system ran get put                                             
grew hate world got sick way                                                                          
aware political                                                                              
incarceration liberal conservative left swing democratic party towards socialism also impeachment                                                                     
tend pay attention dealing justice system                                                                          
feel informed politics since prison                                                                           
lived present moment clue thought felt survive moment moment realize whole reality beyond world striving survive thrive pass experience best know know govern legislation set tone pace create bring order chaos rule law law king law enforce law                                          
news media spend much time crime negative side political influence looking root help mean real help kind good paper prepared go back day walk prison locking throwing away key matter done answer big instead become less human money foot would happy talk someone                                     
yes last three watched news really crazy many hate                                                                       
mostly justice department                                                                             
right vote                                                                              
political since lead prison recovery process become interested country faced us especially involve crime punishment many resolved anger associated traumatic childhood mant times sought help turned blind eye psychological emotional lead path antisocial behavioral beaten tormented abusive understand hurting hurtful wanting feel rhe pain suffering feel inside serious problem facing country innocent social economic facing                         
interested politics affect especially older                                                                           
yes understand politics conflict two concern personal agenda                                                                        
yes say pay past didnt really care politics know starting go better direction border security mainly deport gang illegally believe whole lot us                                                         
longer right opinion                                                                             
see justice system                                                                             
watched news since                                                                             
see upper class getting lower without money                                                                         
yes feel like middle political talk dont anything truly create better society                                                                    
pay attention affect incarceration                                                                            
society link court unfortunately much general public given away public corruption fester grow like cancer quite frankly truly appreciate public truly trying progress positive path                                                       
time become informed forced opinion defend one become opinion stand point also impactual stand point change seen sides issue well become informed side                                                         
crowded nonsense dont get better good time                                                                         
dont listen state dont care long get                                                                         
yes un fair                                                                             
yes injustice see corrupt system like manifest injustice                                                                        
side                                                                               
need let go work together fight common ground make us respect                                                                     
political longer selfish needs needs meet                                                                          
would change handled society                                                                            
yes dont right vote                                                                            
put office prison reform directly subject                                                                          
see want help change                                                                            
pay attention whats going                                                                            
way                                                                               
feel like want rather reb seem reaching blindness willingly take well lack truth party seem infected ie swinging one opinion day less                                                          
something would sad                                                                             
never attention politics understood coming prison                                                                          
need better justice system care                                                                           
becoming aware politics                                                                             
system                                                                               
wasnt politics didnt much affect life                                                                          
comment                                                                               
see country needs work prison reform many locked simply belong certain funds prison reform help prevent coming prison place keep country would probably save millions                                                       
view politics strong ago got                                                                           
yes cause made see need change justice system reform education minority realize voting difference need political                                                                
see way small                                                                             
see positive politics                                                                             
concerning surrounding reach better understanding                                                                           
well since resun say lot us say ever dont                                                                       
yeah used even care politics really going country                                                                        
ye                                                                               
pay attention                                                                              
suck dick                                                                              
oh ya find                                                                             
mean way much better man thats take man                                                                        
affect                                                                               
really help real reform help back society                                                                         
yes swept rug also deal unfair                                                                          
leaving country like sailor leaves sinking ship                                                                         
see wrong legal politics lot government make behalf across country                                                                      
system system real true justice state world                                                                         
since justice system seen like like trash system nit seen human                                                                     
become                                                                               
think opinion                                                                              
hate country                                                                              
way concerned justice reform                                                                            
aware                                                                               
good time percentage time low raised good rime wouldnt many violence rate right mess matter dont lose much time opposed would                                                           
watched news since therefor seen trump always news dumb reason                                                                      
prison reform                                                                              
always republican got tiny bit also got month sentence misdemeanor lewd behavior something outside high time ran concurrent got probation however got got got job county public works got house due register sex offender lost job due public opinion face book found lost house probation officer sent prison employment cant job outside work crew go work release sex offender crime extensive criminal history around substance abuse sex offender thing unbelievable ashamed know get go work release murder   
dont know time                                                                             
become interested                                                                              
yes                                                                               
apt vote republican party independent party two apt say public                                                                      
understand important vote voice taken mistake led incarceration lastly become understand government doesnt want vote negate feel less delinquent still arent vigorous wanting pur especially corrupt judicial system                                                    
yes                                                                               
every body frim race want team survive need kind support make dont                                                                    
well aware going                                                                             
know politics                                                                              
yes                                                                               
mature personal research better understanding                                                                           
never really thought politics trump president                                                                          
never thought political                                                                             
nope                                                                               
state much per prisoner money                                                                           
going back never vote one general election one occasion criminal history hard even register chance going back question one system every little thing food clothes health even basic entertainment insight outside world                                                
want vote                                                                              
didnt care want help turn country around                                                                         
really trying                                                                              
aware politics                                                                              
try going prison                                                                             
yes                                                                               
never really attention politics trump got                                                                          
learning pay attention really help democrat realize want help poor different approach                                                                    
one sided inexperienced                                                                             
since ever since show interest since trump office impeachment drastically                                                                      
understand thinking animosity whites white much better used though disagree                                                                      
never really politics free man prison world world really care put prison say guilty must right try right way world us like scum earth politics another word greed government care care money going looking like world talk strong country yet fake waste military petty nothing us still would fight family ever given chance many love get back fighting army send us instead like us like give              
incarceration able view world objectively                                                                           
use lean towards democratic party liberal lenient crime                                                                        
dont know                                                                              
old uneducated street didnt even political came prison say yes actually political president trump racist politician yes political apart political party working republican party working anything anyone agree street career get streets help us prosper college ill become social worker even though vote doesnt matter trump president                                 
able study political                                                                             
gor better towards                                                                             
see older                                                                              
time stay abreast current learn understand free world hence based upon greater understanding really                                                                  
number one                                                                              
believe us stop killing unite take land back united take crooked greedy government destroy thats dream mine though never happen                                                            
yes need office make system help us keep us                                                                       
see truth grew since used care politics never knew understood meaning know many system young know cause come forgotten come point time see care want help matter matter society elect power ever make want fully incarceration vote half like oh nice broke law truth also want help better help society become better                            
see immediate need reform criminal justice system entire                                                                        
child fan came prison learned damage poor ability access public blinded trial                                                                    
never see come need                                                                            
came prison interest anything stupidity lived prison see public really aware ignorance case prisoner bliss                                                                 
world upper class talk lower poor dont happen go threw hell make made easier upper class dont live work urban                                                            
since registered vote got card week never really interested politics made realize government decide actually effect us power decide goes whether state federal havent really chance look far politics limited given opportunity would involve                                              
like intensity drug                                                                             
since locked fear lost politics                                                                           
yes                                                                               
concerned state worried matter office theyre going screw us level achieve agenda                                                                    
pay attention politics whereas didnt care                                                                          
political knowledge wisdom increase wether incarceration made feel think politically active voice many like think generation really ball taking part government made skewed                                                         
yes lot                                                                              
interested whats happening whats going happen ever                                                                         
didnt faith finally trump actually standing everything said would like un afraid speak working country also take initiative something                                                             
feel like arent right right vote maybe could help change                                                                      
dont know                                                                              
hate ever comes                                                                             
prison shown extreme need prison reform way accomplish change informed                                                                      
believe actually st hand living streets actually like go                                                                       
used hate politics equally flagrant hypocrisy come hate preach tolerance time aggressively attack represent contrary also sending bad mixed telling bullying wrong relentlessly president sometimes family                                                      
seeing always cover investigate state fired heat come back leave even come back make time                                                                 
cause                                                                               
waisted rehabilitation time much else                                                                           
real dealt                                                                              
want know whats going politically                                                                           
become conservative                                                                              
politics closely                                                                              
made aware new made judicial branch also take good look important citizen whats wrong society whole also need make change change environment around                                                         
hard question would say yes trump done past couple taught us like unemployment rate take international effort keep improving unemployment rate                                                           
yes see injustice go threw feel one nothing thats reason big follower wright team prison legal news newspaper get                                                             
well everyone mind time time                                                                           
part future right vote                                                                            
well seen bad side poverty child one doesnt really help trying go half way house drug free home cant even get help                                                          
interested                                                                               
older                                                                               
trusting thing said                                                                             
time actually pay attention know every vote difference                                                                        
seen shouldnt prison believe needs reform                                                                          
prior incarceration interested political agenda realize politics impact life better worse                                                                     
money                                                                               
see racial get lowly race                                                                           
pay work                                                                              
never really politics came prison                                                                           
see actually thought                                                                             
feel like prison dont matter                                                                           
system private interest acknowledge real lie fail actually help us post release violation th felon never chance challenge parole contract                                                            
watch whats happening world since                                                                           
want know whats going politics                                                                           
infighting                                                                               
time aegis criminal justice system certain often political since old enough interested politics theres nothing like hand experience make understand certain view point clarify united criminal justice system turmoil many harmless drug related need help incarceration jail prison time stop hardly ever deter recurrent drug use associated prison system overflowing drug whose time prison actually make worse exposure oft times world likely become well new drug use related brutal cycle horrible tra        
tend see whats really going world ever                                                                         
good                                                                               
lost right vote mixed right back                                                                          
politically minded life going waste time stress energy                                                                        
seen unfair crap justice system                                                                           
say dont count thats way side prison want saying anything voting anything goes outside world                                                                 
view world know like side                                                                           
cant vote doesnt pertain right dont                                                                          
nope_ùä                                                                               
value                                                                               
need drug                                                                              
state allow vote probation                                                                            
grew democrat lean toward republican                                                                           
see life whole new perspective                                                                           
never justice system                                                                             
feel grid chart way extensive feel punishment case case bias cut population trouble simply made mistake                                                                
comment                                                                               
yes manny child                                                                             
make realize                                                                              
doesnt matter                                                                              
cant time                                                                              
charge given                                                                              
born entire life view consider good evil entire political interest half nation basically                                                                   
think                                                                               
view wanting someone respect common rather power fear                                                                        
petty got woman prison even money racket political sickening wrong state used claim home state born raised                                                               
understand important person                                                                             
well wasnt politics interested                                                                            
nothing                                                                               
yes                                                                               
see getting less less time drug get saying one crime worse another maybe                                                                   
crying trump                                                                              
drug reform                                                                              
change                                                                               
dont care                                                                              
life corse time politics suffering went one profit wile time facade made thirst change mother prison father daughter prison system whole almost positive                                                         
seventeen came prison never political standing coming involved politics country date outside world                                                                   
need help felon                                                                             
see work                                                                              
dont believe hope government revolution answer                                                                          
pay attention                                                                              
try let pave road try remain humble true treating everyone                                                                      
essay made realize dont really know much politics want really start looking april                                                                   
believe need something done get time get murdering someone                                                                       
um                                                                               
yes state lost rehabilitation side become warehouse staff                                                                        
since learned except truth truth like often blame government political constitution forth learn ignorant choice force wish illuminate warn self educate                                                           
open minded still bit although                                                                           
took nonchalant stance politics reading news everyday given chance look country headed made country                                                                  
become racist                                                                              
yes become aware detail regarding politics                                                                          
used politically persuaded interested either way since world service political                                                                      
always                                                                               
young man coming system concern politics dos life since coming prison taking notice economical statistics worldly fellow                                                               
need                                                                               
interested person incarceration                                                                             
dont look                                                                              
incarceration moral compass conscience seared conscience morality                                                                         
prison verbally abusive nobody prison                                                                           
used pay attention politics watching learning trump                                                                         
see view                                                                              
incarceration let see experience level money going oh way cannot vote presidency felony answer question prior last essay question                                                             
dont believe matter                                                                             
change                                                                               
think scum earth                                                                             
use think matter know dont                                                                           
difficult explain                                                                              
thats know go lake full                                                                           
see point view little better                                                                           
one trying help us go school college want make money want set get thats always option want change life apart make almost impossible lost                                                        
peace                                                                               
kind hard explain decision sure                                                                           
see bad penal                                                                             
become aware politics since becoming                                                                           
totally                                                                               
every one able vote jail prison                                                                          
could help                                                                              
trump                                                                               
watching trump get                                                                             
voice                                                                               
scam dont matter vote trump way even know scam                                                                       
society could afford proper representation                                                                           
need                                                                               
feel need take better grasp hand country may play role making better                                                                    
yes course slightly highly believe even whenever something comes desk concerning quickly handled keep us long possible money matter look take example biggest problem today fact one attention surrounding case minister visiting house speak given working house well door got house property rent lease agreement residence still found going jail sentence think felt guy doesnt                         
yes think inmate important                                                                            
since gotten older different                                                                            
made want get politics                                                                            
motivation even participate politics try listen much political news possible change department better met past lost whole prison live prison ask made want change answer simple prison system didnt streets many make department helping change better job classes better reward system                                       
see live                                                                              
pay closer attention news                                                                            
understanding                                                                               
trying change                                                                              
need fix                                                                              
need                                                                               
yes see trump bad man                                                                           
see world different place tine think                                                                          
see stuff happen within                                                                            
bother                                                                               
since whole adult life petty drug offender besides made bitter towards politics general led little faith country general                                                              
watching trump                                                                              
think leniency domestic violence situation relationship believing abuser instead also think drug                                                                    
dont see behind                                                                             
want involved even tho cant felon                                                                          
often done survive poverty stricken although breaking taught school along history math science maybe would know better break law would known life would hard job skill level would poor well work history portfolio would never gotten trouble criminal history difficult take seriously many mentally emotionally due fact felon even housing feel locking always answer serving debt society well life near hard social status fact money feel              
year army veteran legislation pretty strongly see severe injustice social classes werent handed write legislation handed affecting writing passing reality could never understand condemning good life hell never understand struggle one thing fight particular job social status another thing fight food shelter sometimes life direct commission legislation shouldnt able affect know                             
think right vote even though like freedom speech                                                                        
think                                                                               
different think look everything major crime severity crime past along present one treating way matter                                                                 
would give perceptive                                                                             
vote get                                                                              
cant explain                                                                              
government                                                                               
nasty                                                                               
cause theres dont thats locked done long time ago                                                                       
become ever get want good like time time vote save spotted owl save didnt read fine print voting save animal also good like going want anyway vote need slate back start ask                                                
upset able get help really need want                                                                         
law enforcement spend sanction jail aloud decide enforce law                                                                       
end needs come corruption system                                                                           
gotten older follow little younger dont much                                                                         
want country get right president                                                                           
learned politics                                                                              
yes less interested politics little attention since watch read news often know politics                                                                   
time study political office                                                                            
dont get right study                                                                            
feel could vote would impact way certain government would                                                                       
know                                                                               
see housing effects                                                                             
become interested political world                                                                            
effect community                                                                              
realize nothing money stuff                                                                            
aware politics                                                                              
yes feel like doesnt help profit plus example even republican wrong cause republican dont vote democrat happen wrong wrong dont care side load crap                                                        
see                                                                               
want fight justice reform                                                                            
joke                                                                               
picked answer                                                                              
profit                                                                               
yes vote arrest incarceration ago education shape political                                                                        
yes definitely become versed politics law social consciousness attentive government public                                                                     
times                                                                               
outlook like criminal justice reform marijuana minimum wage seen better understanding affect lower income                                                                  
see differently ho                                                                             
since age political view point                                                                           
able vote felon                                                                             
learned hate equally                                                                             
time watch learn new ways country sober                                                                         
strongly support republican party                                                                            
true                                                                               
yes time head head clean time follow                                                                         
never really political view till came prison pay                                                                        
even though serving sentence crime still considered felon get prison pariah public stripped away even though                                                                
belive judicial system needs seriously                                                                           
good going away long time able earn way home                                                                       
money used fund prison                                                                            
last incarceration monastic experience come see turned capitalism also come see individualistic culture like justify suffering blaming hunger poverty character flaw biological instead social political economic trap poverty become politically engaged view politics taken radical revolutionary form                                           
sex offender need                                                                             
sex fit                                                                              
want elect understand want job criteria disabled still productive member society make positive community                                                                  
yes making time harder                                                                            
deal prison politics day long go belive put trump office id heart beat need leave man job stop trying bring fictional                                                           
since education found intereat humanity feel progressive human                                                                        
news show care mass incarceration                                                                           
prisoner see change time said important see person worth done done since beginning man always make whole must come together help one another instead hate extensive must support prison reform                                                  
involved process say right thing right                                                                          
used independent even though less towards prison reform feel align republican party                                                                    
un la para la solo si el para el pueblo naciì_n                                                                     
never recognize importance                                                                             
seen reality system narrow detrimental safety society                                                                         
got lockup incident could gone way low level street dealer absolutely education read write politics far mind time thinking feeding family friend told put pride ego learn read write point set back look life life took turn best realize everything one effects around got law realize one cant citizen one doesnt know law know know law dont believe would situation one right bear also duty retreat many know obligation society duty study law lead politics study politics grown political view
prior didnt really political born generation grew nuclear bomb russia nam even though away draft go somewhere fight country father marine fought grand father side poncho villa around border grand father side sons fought maybe remember told mustard gas nasty stuff                                       
talk much                                                                              
yes prison crime got instead getting help mental health prison place need give help drug sober almost happy                                                              
sex offender public forget human making impossible back society                                                                       
well plenty time stay tuned goes country watching world news fox news discovered crazy politics really seem thing need desire real eye opener one way think everyone embrace vacation world stress society general                                               
care                                                                               
think made trump president united                                                                           
articulable politic                                                                              
would much result incarceration personal transformation place therein discovered identity begun view world perspective able better serve capacity greater                                                             
open minded                                                                              
yes see color compare white prison outside well                                                                        
certain refuse look real hand allow reformed                                                                         
incarceration politics care direction country moving facing college education enlightened facing country impact                                                                   
fact met really good made life believe second chance life political need spoken                                                                   
involved politics ever see turmoil country want keep times order trying incorporate politically driven                                                                  
yes understand little bit didnt                                                                           
none                                                                               
twenty ago felt opinion didnt matter party didnt understand amongst since learned share republican party look legislative worked retirement need reform                                                           
yes since locked everything change                                                                           
view government dramatically particularly respect prison health care food service                                                                      
social justice social change                                                                            
become conscious dynamics politics                                                                            
good                                                                               
watch news                                                                              
impact                                                                               
way country run                                                                             
great deal taken time pay attention fear upon last fifty due addiction rate society taken control social structure                                                              
aware                                                                               
honestly right high school didnt care politics starting see system                                                                      
made realize corrupt system                                                                            
consideration towards prison human                                                                            
negative bias constant reaction really sad fear causing anti patriotism country really due incarceration                                                                  
see aware whats going                                                                            
yes know trying change prison system                                                                          
rime                                                                               
hard time understanding prison less citizen unable vote like citizen less person made                                                                   
looking one care                                                                             
seeing hearing want vote try get better stop corruption fair honest legal system                                                                   
political since experience justice open deeply set lack government                                                                       
less traditionalist versed civil criminal constitutional law reading thus grown informed                                                                     
harder view election incarceration                                                                            
gave light understanding politics                                                                            
watch unfold clearly prison busy working streets                                                                         
sometimes dont understand run way                                                                           
care                                                                               
racial                                                                               
ware house told self lied lost hope want chance life learned great deal sorry one chance                                                                
thought drop ball prison reform                                                                           
never really attention politics                                                                            
never used care much git directly racism system                                                                        
stringent less variable                                                                             
president impeachment president bush compassionate conservatism support present bush took war false president however policy support president trump                                                              
prison                                                                               
never see system                                                                             
need working prison reform                                                                            
yes think party use support democratic party incarceration                                                                        
came prison follow care politics part life care politician say affect nation                                                                    
gave time stop see going world                                                                          
try get involved politics religion prison                                                                          
well give time see news see better talking                                                                        
none                                                                               
dont agree                                                                              
yes wrong way                                                                             
yes see sides nation                                                                            
family republican coming prison republican coming prison taking college seeing world differently combined experience voting democrat even though democrat responsible crime ended federal pell grant program guess would come around see folly war tough crime                                             
hate politics                                                                              
time look                                                                              
idea importance politics sence justice wrong true true political position needs look rate incarceration rate crime order                                                               
treat sex like least likely reoffend crime                                                                         
need prison reform                                                                             
would vote would especially concerning prison reform inmate parole release                                                                      
informed ever                                                                              
used capital punishment came prison truly innocent                                                                         
interest whatsoever politics month subsequently prison foster child merely suppress getting point life make significant life personnel                                                               
conservative take account social justice prison reform see need change oblivious justice today                                                                   
understand today pay streets                                                                            
dont anything without money help rehabilitate would care president                                                                       
focus someone trying get                                                                            
like money sign                                                                             
never really since never watch happening country corrupt lying breaking stealing money wasting bogus impeachment longer stand stop deserve better better                                                           
used believe country stood however since becoming involved criminal justice system seeing crooked corrupt starting change dramatically change needs come                                                            
grown whole life taught work since turned hearing stopped listening agenda tearing country apart sure see know right thing much hate distain current gone deep could realize see worked country world would better                                               
made open around corruption political system                                                                          
republican party government country whole younger raise hell get high leniency along democrat party learned country run smoothly everyone need enforced need get educated work need manage spending better need small low strong military republican agree dont really government civil dont really stand anything                                    
shown extreme need criminal justice reform mass incarceration                                                                        
didnt think much high prison rate talk reform till state given life sentence time offender system seeing given second chance state strongly believe change chance say parole prison system never thought thought would never inmate                                             
conservative someone never wrong side criminal justice system quote well recall dont know said                                                                  
know prison industrial complex                                                                            
yes                                                                               
news                                                                               
none                                                                               
went republican independent                                                                             
didnt even pay attention politics talking watching interest                                                                        
yes use democrat however prison time study zero talk good game make huge never meet opinion get dirty get accomplished said would justice reform even said priority never everything said would past still manage work ongoing distraction going investigation every day speak think republican party think action think think nothing                              
dont care                                                                              
since paying attention since cant vote public                                                                         
dont give                                                                              
feel like trump racist                                                                            
dont know                                                                              
got actually time learn political                                                                           
hate law                                                                              
see would like whoever president really understand realize never happen                                                                      
yes beforehand didnt political                                                                            
criminal chasing money hedonistic master pay attention going outside sphere payong attention world around ago                                                                 
arrest rarely ever thought formerly especially sex important part political given opportunity move beyond past shouldnt rest                                                               
aware system works youve truly cant grasp situation hand                                                                       
since becoming made decision become stay law citizen relationship take godly stand                                                                    
majority dont even didnt care understand call stuck stupid lack see life different proper way fight back ballot simple vote right direction see go                                                        
informed since become aware attentive                                                                           
see harshly                                                                              
yes                                                                               
always pro democrat even though democrat used like lie right looking us like care power need stand like trump seem like dont know next                                                        
time prison reflect reach actual fact little formation never political little impact time interest mostly social nature politics drive popular opinion politics shape music culture interact various multiple like keep finger pulse shifting politics today seem drive social change past believe believe never gave much thought prior incarceration may still core tact change correct word answer expanded widespread time focus                    
seen number incarceration political system prison system pawn platform time however put office forget original platform                                                                
grow change time                                                                             
young got locked didnt really understand importance voting interested voting                                                                      
guess youd call liberal coming prison older mature become come nurture negative personally led life crime whereas uphold innocent wholesome taught growing probably wouldnt survey right                                                      
would like address previous question made less likely vote less likely feel voter nothing help voice truly far political since incarceration use go family thought told whereas due find need know make best decision needs citizen                                            
came yo prison never know anything political care time learn different party understand trying help                                                                 
didnt use care really didnt understand anything seeing seen since really made want active voting making voice                                                               
didnt care streets didnt understand lost streets want better streets want help hope dont get lost                                                                
use think party black party responsible mass incarceration                                                                        
political since since learned think critically look situation objectively weigh instead issue concerning one political another                                                                
dont think rather believe helping help everyone                                                                         
seen much corruption comes us want accept fact want represent country help us get hope lying                                                                
understand need help able fit back need power aid                                                                       
use anything right arms came young teach better gift right responsibility goes shooting agree done issue                                                                
political view point believe everyone able vote                                                                         
actually watch news didnt know understand going                                                                         
certain face today society president                                                                           
thinking time dont make sense                                                                           
world works                                                                              
really self see see turn around one small thing wealthy say well people_ùê                                                                   
democratic side republican                                                                             
look differently                                                                              
much realize government impact daily life prisoner involved standing voice                                                                      
yes concerning notice dont care right actually lie political sacrifice moral character extremely bad view                                                                 
watching news whats going country                                                                           
try look sides                                                                             
pay attention news understand happening                                                                           
coming prison use want vote make difference country coming prison seeing treatment made realize corrupted system around forever apart gang justice freedom                                                          
said last question still dont trust politics                                                                         
would like say even member community far socially financially conservative prior incarceration support number societal especially education justice reform support still consider republican though one might call purple elephant conservative willing make compromise wherein public good best slightly less conservative approach                                       
political world meant nothing felt didnt effect life read learned time shown wrong                                                                   
tune outside world ever cause know ill affected point life incarceration                                                                     
time due change really politics like us government say anything know stop                                                                    
well sent prison didnt really care political stuff study half                                                                      
know                                                                               
use think democratic party best interest hand since like many seen truth democratic party ensure made collect history certain make health care vote opposite party vote instead needs needs                                                   
locked made look life prison see need change                                                                        
well coming prison law enforcement grown come look thing lot differently choose view understand theyre coming                                                                
want put right office seem always money war sending back                                                                      
grew told history class school could best working class poor overall country get older realize corruption major political                                                              
incarceration didnt really care politics except voting bigger view political world due access constant watching news                                                                
look every voice count every vote count                                                                         
difficult say                                                                              
usually could careless since politics new affect sex hearing                                                                       
prison realize community also society also also want help improve around thats would like run state                                                                
havent radically dont consider                                                                            
feel like mass incarceration needs stop need form good time                                                                      
actually pay attention                                                                             
made open                                                                              
didnt knowledge locked since                                                                            
yes locked open                                                                             
locked pay attention world                                                                            
got reason didnt think saw news politics anything got older learning politics saw whatever going capital hill white house something                                                            
yes perhaps corruption inside system awful killing control good time system overcrowded funds going need made actual public knowledge like public understand believe punishment reach parole done time positively conduct free yet due wait classes parole cannot get fault wait mail list long close                                    
dont know                                                                              
getting worser person locked getting help make better plus staff white nonwhite constantly setting either hole worst new case                                                             
border control deportation illegal                                                                            
state michigan law truth person minimum law go home michigan minimum see parole board thats right way law shouldnt parole board                                                           
incarceration closed minded mind set political concerned going community world much bigger opinion didnt directly affect didnt care                                                              
yes pay attention said background information                                                                          
really becoming aware whats going around son think smart become somewhat                                                                     
going politically                                                                              
never really prison life living horrible nasty crime send everyone prison court gun residue better plea clean need come back vote change low work decision need change                                                     
never really understood political world like untill came prison reading watching news pay close attention                                                                 
coming prison political view voting didnt care one way coming prison guess whole thing shoe foot whatnot                                                               
think michigan needs soe reform treatment                                                                          
thing never thought like reform                                                                           
yes                                                                               
trump need good time like dont matter every one                                                                       
though ever favor yeah political view since                                                                         
use think best interest heart learned political part                                                                        
yes look                                                                              
got locked ago grown                                                                            
yes never thought sex offender one understand sex offender still need help                                                                    
yes previously simply understand mass incarceration prison justice system young public safety officer used buy tough crime politics                                                              
didnt care care especially comes way president answer behalf                                                                       
didnt realize corrupt politics legal system prior                                                                         
anyone tried help believe help root commit                                                                         
support want change want keep system                                                                          
watch news really feel cant vote stand                                                                         
age view better informed                                                                            
trump                                                                               
seeing whats going world                                                                            
think sides                                                                              
never                                                                               
open recognize media bias learned form political bias                                                                        
lote get wrong even frist crime                                                                          
concerned country president                                                                             
made want take control                                                                            
time watch see politics                                                                            
never much attention matter like everyone                                                                          
seeing current president trump able lie blatantly justify behavior excuse abuse office president oath swore god man uphold                                                              
inhumane treatment montana department towards inmate                                                                          
political prison didnt pay attention politics                                                                          
learned corrupt judicial system overwhelming need judicial reform constitution constitutional need find put office whats best instead wealthy                                                              
know hate politics                                                                             
know corruption government                                                                             
since locked                                                                              
came really                                                                              
dont know write                                                                             
strong conservative religious many classes                                                                           
see poor                                                                              
think politics prey poor rich get away minimal punishment                                                                       
yes                                                                               
hand witness pure absolute corruption justice system country become police power corruption justice system greed power religious zealousy antiquated keep system corrupt path consequentially leading country inevitable ruin make immediate need lose greed profiteering                                              
think like republican middle leaning left                                                                          
want get see sides everything                                                                           
time research interpretation constitution also driven left strict construction text line nobody freewheeler                                                                   
felt got locked interested getting rid trump                                                                         
fed crooked system dont get wrong guilty however system work make us better would steal prison system manifestation societal injustice prison system society less safe                                                       
become conservative believe also learned transparency necessary                                                                         
aware profit get tough crime came sides far political                                                                       
likely want vote                                                                             
payed attention                                                                              
open corruption                                                                              
support truly want help                                                                            
yes would like opinion count toward something                                                                         
empathy                                                                               
come see bad already                                                                            
look candidate differently listen progressive                                                                           
treat discharge crime get parole                                                                           
law mist life dont give person get way stop                                                                       
whole system us police media public prison parole board work hard keep prison help ensure many come back                                                              
liberal view                                                                              
still believe country best nation world                                                                          
justice system needs across board every state montana far behind considering parole something federal illegal condition give anyone state                                                             
see different side                                                                             
used faith government dont power overthrow corruption continue believe civil legal remedy violence mandatory believe president trump would support military witch democratic party executed high treason corruption false punishable death                                                  
faith montana justice                                                                             
hat country done become                                                                            
well sure side agree                                                                            
believe need person work equality                                                                           
place prison see say                                                                            
affected human civil keep prison life light killing engaged consenting homosexual oral sex man going marry put prison                                                              
aware leftist                                                                              
know hate country full                                                                            
understanding system much informed rather common perception seen actual mistreatment prisoner profit system needs                                                                  
prison politics politics nutshell                                                                            
see importance tolerance                                                                             
cause cannot help change tribe help find help pur family                                                                      
since false seen want president president president                                                                         
power vote path country take define future                                                                         
political fact becoming aware situation locked penological system dramatic effect                                                                      
used believe justice know better                                                                           
really dont care                                                                             
time come moor open open minded world politics trump never politics outside prison mead politics fun know friendly person politic times little brash right say president could tould dont think ether side lie tell us want word hurt lot made country better would say havent mead mind yet want country great powerful know war self ether brake us make us better                   
yes justice system see political country heading brewing making want help country yet issue prevention weighing opinion correct voting                                                             
vet already upset path country taken anti                                                                         
grown emotionally understand                                                                             
see money stress corruption correction country                                                                          
everyone dune time                                                                             
made way thinking                                                                             
taken away crime took appeal away justice system get away much truth debate best                                                                  
crime                                                                               
see shady acting like spoiled ashamed                                                                          
never thought impact politics much impact us trump messing allies getting away much president law believe congress file criminal                                                             
interest politics life care                                                                            
become interested politics understand impact power influence political power                                                                       
yes care population montana montana supreme court care innocent prison case see wrong case county case case talk case want conviction case                                                          
made aware going happen                                                                            
need one nonsense earth                                                                            
since incarceration want know system history believe need                                                                        
us made forget time us need thinking good bad good                                                                      
dont know                                                                              
see hand prison system suppose help dont help funds pocket                                                                      
vote opinion goes country                                                                            
yes regardless always put want office even know anything old saying goes money walk                                                                  
gun violence greatly use really enjoy shooting grew watching terrible happen liberty play another human life dont give someone launch like cant think reason gun rifle going hunting whole herd bison home defense ill probably bring whole house around rifle good dont see wouldnt anyone else                                  
great state montana corrupt state criminal justice system change criminal justice system home                                                                   
ways always disadvantage country based race even working state college admission office father navy                                                                  
justice blind ching hear sound money longer right wrong profit                                                                      
didnt                                                                               
believe financial gain especially montana                                                                           
personally affected department whereas never experienced incarceration ignorant ways judicial system definitely public rehabilitation control experimentation obey else                                                              
get involved process informed solution                                                                           
country highest incarceration rate world would support criminal justice reform congressman senator would petty drug possession treatment intensive supervision time system attached steering wheel sex unfortunately get successfully complete treatment locked halfway house let inmate earn right outside depending behavior around dayclose yr incarcerate take money provide classes addiction like believe child sex addiction sense reality us behave go chosen                    
yes                                                                               
best                                                                               
got locked young really care happening country thirteen later may soon society would say every thing happening affect us one way another                                                          
never politics truly understood better educated understand important know                                                                       
interested system get us back founding father mind stated thinking founding concerned party                                                                   
time actually hear soak sides trying saying going pretty interesting stay party backed life end                                                                 
matter got voice world small need follow politics cause well                                                                      
value moral raised affect community importance voice prison matter anyone way matter need contribute voice                                                                 
older far age better informed experienced mature socially aware later wish could participate society working paying voting alas citizenship forever lost                                                           
educated political independent vote along party vote think best job matter party belong                                                                   
sort yes one story goes thusly prior coming prison basically want mine dont like way hate wasnt exactly kind outlook year prison come prayer everything wasnt political prior relationship everything came differently met thus little politics inhabited thinking also underwent revolution                                       
much aware free man                                                                            
see government negligent self serving                                                                           
yes believe prison reform                                                                            
regardless vote put office want feel like hey made history black president put                                                                   
growing never thought politics living                                                                           
since number voice important enough vote                                                                          
thing pay attention politics used personal went extreme liberalism moderate socialist viewpoint                                                                    
yes came age didnt really understand care like understand better like health care border security gun violence food think pay attention pay attention late                                                        
never really politics untill got locked                                                                          
used believe see evil place run real dope                                                                        
starting recognize prison                                                                             
yes old party reform justice drug                                                                          
understand pay attention                                                                             
see corrupt unfair system would vote someone see                                                                        
havent politics subjected unjust running montana state prison system                                                                       
stripped od                                                                              
yes                                                                               
didnt really political                                                                             
able get better understanding government                                                                           
human                                                                               
made prejudice made like politics much                                                                          
well point paying like see thing care running gay right marry                                                                     
wish could sure took every thing away four latter trying give back vote four aid still didnt give us back country fair us                                                         
dont care                                                                              
watch                                                                               
voting time opinion much concern right                                                                          
think trump best                                                                             
become informed political climate happening country time goes honestly think comes age though                                                                   
concrete call cell misguided adolescent best locked cell day straight heart mind many thus formulation political today                                                               
waste time                                                                              
dont voice end dont                                                                            
never rich colored last slight form equality may                                                                        
since initial incarceration law given great appreciation law want active productive member society                                                                   
hate fact government particularly take pride family hate every cop involved family nothing sheer joy us                                                                
dont see change one                                                                            
democratic                                                                               
cant tell                                                                              
right wing conservative moderate                                                                            
desire care face humanity                                                                            
prison reform didnt care                                                                            
yes gang member                                                                             
following trump faith structure government reform federal far best president lifetime                                                                     
spent time learning prison lived servant know like say live better china living camp affect every thing decide life face death penalty affect everything                                                        
country                                                                               
time pay attention going world give serious consideration                                                                        
stupid                                                                               
become corrupt look rich                                                                            
country way used                                                                             
better idea tax angry system                                                                           
well done lot wrong criminal yes get wrong wrong get away like give input parole see strong suite feel                                                             
prison reform always political stock keeping torn apart monetary gain                                                                      
worried family dealing daily                                                                            
yes cause made help matter type crime try change one hardly chance                                                                    
hate country                                                                              
incarceration system make control prison system doc justice know concerned way look affect party saying dont care crime long either look good something help next election                                                      
theres money become theres deserve locked dont one government concerned                                                                      
much time pay attention politics well able believe seem constantly going white house language never sitting president impossible pay attention felon since vote certain made like best pay attention matter vote                                                 
run president                                                                              
time pay attention                                                                             
aware broken system war without accountability true amendment right press tell side automatically guilty upon arrest forgotten please see                                                             
watched political many filling                                                                            
seen injustice                                                                              
never untell paying                                                                             
us                                                                               
yes ever hateful strongly think need eradicate current restart                                                                       
time gather political                                                                             
prisoner law crime keep locked past discharge unethical wrong                                                                       
well dont think long term incarceration answer crime                                                                        
watch news informed know want office                                                                          
like would rather paying taking care family instead wasting tax money living prison                                                                   
core                                                                               
yes dont believe voice watch news see sitting hill congress yawning disposed piece paper talking talking garbage policy making six sac lunch many wasted day acceptable something snaps yet must comity counsel vacation holiday yet federal government whole quite growing support us get stand say thats waste poor quite poor funded see fraction grant wasted paying dont want end drag incentive ever end anything example correctional              
yes cause get big                                                                            
feel like show class want normal population voting create nation pursuit happiness individual freedom obtain dream                                                                
involved whats world                                                                             
yes feel important look running office support                                                                         
nope                                                                               
look support                                                                              
think country running touch trump something outside standard wrong choice right much baggage someone else think may beaten trump theyre trump                                                           
locked recidivism rate goes                                                                            
think impression president everything condescending comes never also needs improperly authority get information                                                                   
obviously criminal justice reform actually lack vote could vote age knowledge made                                                                    
yes really didnt understand much want involved                                                                         
met made interesting see look                                                                           
democrat                                                                               
well locked facility lower housing unit injustice person go even person innocent dont kind voice everyday giving person whats hole anything strait humane torcher inhumane needs political today                                                    
lost faith justice system                                                                            
petty full dangerous                                                                             
didnt bother much politics seeing truth come call justice want support someone focus foreign war matter control                                                               
believe true interest personal agenda                                                                           
never attention politics starting follow                                                                           
yes                                                                               
locked everything                                                                              
never use care figured way say matter learned statement false live country rule voting powerful tool used change wrong going majority population color would happen whole lot poor uneducated hope better future voting                                               
dont feel need express matter                                                                           
half ago evil                                                                             
yes vote                                                                              
learned progovernment believe freedom well right bare arms party sort freedom right bare arms vote stand presidential                                                               
feel like dont voice                                                                            
yes                                                                               
realize corrupt bias judicial system plus nothing commodity market pork orange juice oil                                                                   
see break law cant anything                                                                           
good                                                                               
yea                                                                               
really sit time think going world without made decide influence change                                                                     
yes belive right vote                                                                            
ever                                                                               
simple rich get rest us plea                                                                          
nd amendment way never                                                                            
pay whats going world                                                                            
engaged every level important ever soul preservation good freedom free ignorance apathy                                                                    
sure                                                                               
become aware multitude social society unaware                                                                          
yes ever matter                                                                             
prison reform                                                                              
prison reform inmate                                                                             
think human crime system                                                                            
come understand dont understand politics                                                                           
yes                                                                               
havent                                                                               
fact incarceration rather learned since                                                                           
everything money                                                                              
older see                                                                              
time debate                                                                              
general public know                                                                             
hope god political need                                                                            
use proven crazy                                                                             
incarceration witness discrimination previously thought dying culture also connected information belief political opinion think one culturally diverse sometimes antagonistic potential individual growth                                                          
need let public know going inside prison public know clew whats going choose make public usually                                                                
well politically informed                                                                             
racism rising along drug abuse organizational profit chosen                                                                        
guess see trouble prison doesnt work times                                                                         
become aware whats going country since                                                                          
standing                                                                               
young informed opinion                                                                             
used think good crime yrs ago mandatory min sentence ended life never hurt anyone                                                                  
attention government political news                                                                            
dont care number dollar sign                                                                           
yes cause got closer look hand dirty legal system right back                                                                     
use voice                                                                              
fight native                                                                              
well thought trump might good ever wrong                                                                         
interested                                                                               
yes used side                                                                             
grown aware true realm prison complex social rather criminal mental illness drug addiction broken without perpetuate                                                                
life tend effect generalized anyways change inevitable ability adapt anything else us dominant species planet                                                                 
idea didnt really know either platform knew welfare good incarceration given experience comes age watching news know intended unintended simple ya raise wage great till understand gallon milk cost us little pay big business                                              
dont feel like                                                                             
havent chance vote                                                                             
would like start group back corrupt system really taught water real life slowly need schooling job                                                                
never attention befire                                                                             
lean left                                                                              
becoming less ignorant politics get older becoming important venture slowly selfish little world built self still knowledgeable id like could probably tell                                                          
watched news found                                                                             
big deal us forgotten                                                                            
wrong individual president trump                                                                            
learned deal system general                                                                            
prison business see                                                                             
needs active prison reform                                                                            
looking several us failure government looking reform simple answer lock spend taxpayer money incarceration instead treatment teaching keep addicted bettering country whole country combined land free_ùâ_ùá                                                      
locked political since sides gone combination common sense feel inside                                                                      
want                                                                               
fallen cant vote                                                                             
dont vote                                                                              
feel victim system fill instead times relapsing new                                                                        
yes authority taught reliable myth daily                                                                          
far empathy understanding criminal justice system civil also enlightened bias subject especially black                                                                   
yes prior incarceration really didnt care one way                                                                        
yes care politics realize much politics directly affect made study research instead apathetic                                                                   
yes work education wrongfully centered around criminal justice reintegration ball name rehabilitation still much herd mentality                                                                
yes president made take notice optimistic real change pay attention say                                                                     
yes yes political direction incarceration open along mind                                                                        
yes politics govern important involved politics especially voting process much fighting among good                                                                   
lifelong democrat family lifelong see directly social safety abstract like generational poverty concrete                                                                   
prior incarceration believe certain core left right                                                                         
become student history political theory become sophisticated far political thinking goes aware social contract liberalism                                                                 
yes understand                                                                              
yes era soy un                                                                            
yes watching hearing trump represent country serious                                                                         
yes incarceration better appreciate politics involved mass incarceration prior incarceration considered connection                                                                    
yes incarceration political thats talk seriously believe theres lot corruption politics system built nonwhite                                                                  
yes feel strongly voting never chance know voice could make great                                                                     
yes gotten know really vote along moral situational whats best family generally thinking                                                                   
yes campus radical late middle road age prison                                                                        
yes th grade education living bathroom cell educated see dont want us effect right change injustice system                                                               
yes better understanding political use guile misdirection gain                                                                        
yes politically ignorant care must knowledge participate greatly politics                                                                       
yes originally political engagement option view obligation duty                                                                        
yes never attention politics bush came office see shift pay close attention trump focus                                                                  
vote want bring equal justice                                                                           
wronged late program much cost month inmate dont address paying homeless                                                                     
yes learned thing justice rich                                                                           
yes realize allow vote                                                                            
yes better understanding legislative process represent minority fall sway                                                                       
yes subjected entire jail sentence jail reform top priority well equal fair treatment equal pay                                                                 
yes used associate democrat reading major concur history                                                                        
yes coming prison didnt political view us made pay attention view                                                                     
yes got older realize needs change                                                                          
yes although democrat notice bad political view came conflict state versus federal something know assume different                                                                
age ignorantly us war blind patriotism would love see war life precious also need focus conservation animal global warm                                                             
yes republican everybody theyre corrupt                                                                           
yes believe difference believe white men agenda                                                                         
yes never political view strong political view                                                                         
still explain simply like office tried sad hard time together always divide us                                                                   
yes older got understand community civil business                                                                         
always new felt matter like outsider undesirable                                                                         
side hear free free free poor less rich made choice everyone equal always equal times                                                                 
yes independent prison complete democrat directly involved criminal justice system see grossly unfair unjust system none follow law go personal supposed                                                           
yes extent needs great deal reform done top entire criminal justice system broken politics largely unchanged center right center left                                                            
yes learning might able make difference good                                                                         
yes yes bid never understood impact political toward cause one                                                                      
yes come understand dont matter party control comes deficit problem facing country                                                                    
yes right way believe country come                                                                          
yes pretty good reading dont add                                                                          
yes system broken figure along cycle time along moral life                                                                      
yes rd state bid also fact great deal time around yet politically speaking general interest revolve solely around situation hand entire criminal justice system whole                                                       
yes make best place earth cop man thought house got black would never see light day ever                                                               
yes get older understand us make change come                                                                        
yes like lot support must merit seem working hard becoming successful                                                                     
yes havent swayed left learned lot nancy disgusted ever                                                                       
yes th amendment                                                                             
yes never ever vote republican much compassionate                                                                         
yes incarcerate criminal justice system incredibly predatory coercive nature also belief fundamental humanity                                                                   
yes political rhetoric party affiliation longer view character reparation benevolence moral tone                                                                    
yes older                                                                              
yes care know                                                                             
yes came prison didnt care politics understand importance choosing right person elect public office                                                                  
yes got know know since really know care one time                                                                      
yes                                                                               
yes feel disservice embracing political last forty moreover political view concerning right life unborn certainly since personal encounter lord                                                             
yes democrat independent politics illusion service corruption power                                                                        
prior incarceration political                                                                             
yes believe one vote change great deal                                                                         
yes never attention politics prior entering prison didnt understand politics didnt think politics black                                                                  
become informed hopefully evolve                                                                            
yes never pay attention politics                                                                           
yes incarceration apt believe particular politician like character however informed weight accurately                                                                    
yes came prison blind politics indifferent learned politics appreciate important black get involved                                                                   
yes streets never really watched news informed terrible happening country corrupt                                                                     
actually pay attention politics                                                                            
watch news often see whats going country didnt watch news care                                                                     
yes realize need                                                                             
yes political local justice system money mill political machine power                                                                      
yes never much attention free interested whats going world                                                                       
yes got chance see sideline able point one speaking                                                                       
good wood                                                                              
pay attention reform                                                                             
rather jail decide                                                                             
pay attention                                                                              
free really political concerned new affect criminal justice reform                                                                       
yes depressed                                                                              
yes think would change anyone view                                                                          
see vote charge making behalf state national level writing passing become may help hurt future                                                                 
see political change better save money spend better                                                                        
reality judicial system understanding create daily justify poor man say raw end deal completely destroy hurt                                                                
helping                                                                               
yes look                                                                              
getting old                                                                              
feel like                                                                              
feel though penal system heavily statistics make informed many umbrella                                                                      
jail prison un motivate                                                                            
choose going put office matter look trump                                                                         
state privately dwelling privately ran misdemeanor cold hungry                                                                        
feel like dont want bother voting cant                                                                         
thanks                                                                               
yes                                                                               
none                                                                               
yes time offender never involved politics thought prison matter involve pernicious machine lifetime                                                                   
yes become result seeing republican power                                                                          
yes time see thing much clearly extra time want need involved choice part system                                                                  
yes read vote ever family say vote                                                                         
want able voice                                                                             
sure                                                                               
yes longer believe death penalty removing                                                                          
yes idea much wealthy pushing detrimental everyone moral fiber country                                                                      
yes become second chance country need change                                                                         
yes say yet none really helping us behind dont help us us want come back prison getting help need                                                             
always regardless party platform stood best family                                                                         
great need criminal justice prison reform know movement could send prison innocent man evidence cant get fair trial unbiased begin                                                            
run real deal seen die lack medical care die starvation seen degraded lack hygiene violence alone rampant sex get need survive prison                                                          
yes become moderate see extremism tearing us apart                                                                        
see throw away attitude toward total lack rehabilitation available prison                                                                      
yes used open meeting several                                                                           
yes political want understand politics affect life                                                                         
yes cant necessarily say political may still able articulate exactly learn politics work toward deem important                                                                
yes dont care us assume since state convict us whatever crime nothing like care whats going come back home whatever thats going                                                          
yes parole system needs overhaul shameful see system                                                                        
business                                                                               
yes allow prose work legal one political expose void disciplinary bar biggest crime conspiracy ever told                                                                
still believe beautiful country made mistake learned lot experience cause listen going world affect us whole prison free                                                              
yes educated politics see government                                                                           
yes staunch republican rush free world seeing prison system run however dont see us want lock us throw away key                                                            
really pay attention going us see clear feel political need important know really faced make new                                                                
less government                                                                              
seen corpus                                                                              
much towards needs judicial reform                                                                           
aware effect                                                                              
major office                                                                              
much exposure justice system                                                                            
everything fair                                                                              
always wore democrat hat since locked come realize republican constitutional preservation constitution                                                                    
become interested prison reform used opinion broke law locked however distinguish acutely rehabilitation punishment                                                                  
yes living penal system didnt care someone finally expose enemy                                                                      
yes become aware see whole lot                                                                          
yes reason say yes everything put dont agree time                                                                       
yes live know live every day story need time fight                                                                      
lot thats right need see serious                                                                          
yes incarceration wasnt politics felt didnt matter whatever wasnt going benefit kind benefit would minimally                                                                 
incarceration realize amount racism politics came head trump presidency made want scream shout demand                                                                  
conservative mostly yet life without parole know pushing prison reform want yet struggle accept come                                                                 
yes didnt seem like vote dont count                                                                         
living society wasnt worried politics caught concerned happening world around                                                                      
yes never thought importance vote would didnt know face                                                                       
always right still remains                                                                            
yes seen get lot time small get time big back something needs change                                                                   
yes understand must follow govern human body                                                                         
yes prison become exposed great system alike poor man may innocent may spend rest life prison afford proper legal representation guilt man money may go free pay close attention mainly approach prison reform believe make change                                            
yes us know good person made bad decision                                                                        
yes accountable human citizen want better help understand big pict also us need love compassion god actual know self hard see create maker                                                         
yes see hand treat mass different                                                                          
yes new learning new                                                                            
yes locked never gave politics much thought time care dont                                                                      
yes never really figured opinion wouldnt matter                                                                         
yes see truth                                                                             
yes let white house                                                                            
program tell become better man                                                                           
yes political campaign                                                                             
united us still prejudice                                                                            
always hopefully grace god may able vote                                                                         
black man expect one thing dont norm                                                                         
yes actually get see effect human                                                                          
one really help one another since strived learn politics                                                                       
yes lot time read lot lot lot                                                                         
glaring big business                                                                             
way like human money dont wont better self keep coming back                                                                     
answer                                                                               
learned lot whats really going                                                                           
need criminal justice reform                                                                            
feel like shut stupid made                                                                           
fighting formy freedom                                                                             
figured justice system employment system respect see                                                                         
hate wrong like thought trump good nope                                                                         
free world never took time care pay attention going country thats find sober watching news informed whats going                                                              
yes really believe every vote free country really voicing ballot                                                                      
used republican yet gravitate democracy                                                                           
trump                                                                               
strong towards criminal justice reform democracy                                                                          
fight unjust system                                                                             
lost hidden prison usually hear prison hear overcrowded living sub par well nutrition low good technology far behind real world get easy relapse need place shorten based performance even community custody time teach ways support outside let earn ways able successful outside                                      
yes since political view felon although made huge mistake doesnt mean horrible person stuck prison twenty five mass incarceration since locked part learned lesson lengthy release date stuck long term change issue government always like                                             
notice side dont really know ur put place us                                                                       
never much persecute look like look paper feel everyone story everyone help make world better place shown love acceptance                                                             
prison reform combat recidivism top priority                                                                          
sure                                                                               
see nobody really side everyone become forget us                                                                        
yes feel like able vote wath believe                                                                         
yes realize                                                                              
everyone                                                                               
try get vote back                                                                            
know looking inside like                                                                            
yes lack dont right vote                                                                           
need change                                                                              
change either become inmate affected family member discover media effect negative way                                                                    
want free stop prison profit                                                                           
help really understand whats really going world                                                                         
used sex registration seeing many sex offense wife wife think certain able cry rape think certain shouldnt register instance guy caught public shouldnt register land free hurting anyone really change                                                  
interested used                                                                              
yes                                                                               
five percent population twenty five percent illegal free                                                                        
seen inside system works theres good                                                                          
feel like matter vote wont matter please                                                                         
yes understanding see every day news talk                                                                         
yes see world right minded sober                                                                          
yes watching news everyday see mess country moment                                                                        
yes never really going watch news see going                                                                        
need vote                                                                              
never attention reason time                                                                            
met intelligent strong creative effective many already world around even though continue face stigma believe mass incarceration wrong majority known would never prison better education advocate mass incarceration little opportunity rehabilitation men face society                                              
motivation time watch learn read works political prince given perspective constitution differ idealistic form come realization special interest practice career follow blindly every view matter truth contrary causing country blindly following listen half clouded follow indignation think know lead stop easily found example sex high risk reoffend need sex offender registration help law enforcement keep                         
far normal fluctuate based upon propaganda experience daily                                                                        
political living complete opposite life everyone piece crap criminal think prison reform serious thing needs                                                                 
nexus                                                                               
really                                                                               
government like fill state federal treatment also allow streets truly government random happen around us happen purpose enact law law enforcement possess                                                          
really                                                                               
never locked hole life since never never vote voting system really know works                                                                   
grown interested works wish learn                                                                           
gritten girly face live comfortably crazy done keep dont wit real wit buckle still buckle                                                                 
si mi es yo mi de tube un en mi es un para mi se en las familia yo se ai para soy la de ala para mi es solo un de pintura para ala en mi padre para de la para ala de yo para ami la mas para dinero para comer en la solo se leer mi se leer la de un err               
see suffering disaster petty going supposed thats right dont deserve feel like cant address president feel like religion personal interest period president rude wrong chaos question loyalty us                                                    
never really informed felt like affected stay informed opinion feel affected                                                                     
learned different political prison                                                                            
yes use give flying                                                                            
discovery good grief                                                                             
want involved                                                                              
used never care                                                                             
vote pick us                                                                             
yes talk ran facility need pay attention                                                                         
political time pay attention whats going around                                                                         
didnt rightly care politics want whats best family course world                                                                      
yes broad scope yet individual breaking needs unique individual well leading often right place help beforehand could example dont believe jail prison always option mostly suffer addiction sort                                                    
interest yet grow learn self respect want part make change                                                                      
go prison scum                                                                             
strongly dont trust                                                                             
jail joke                                                                              
mostly dont really care much opinion subject matter since cant vote                                                                     
little interest general public say incarceration actually gave insight real opinion politics educated old school fact check research answer                                                             
see political due racial form                                                                           
range none sometimes outrageous                                                                            
due illegal cop tactic news afraid due                                                                         
murder think wrong speaking                                                                            
cause corrupt county city state wa                                                                          
care due impact life                                                                            
would like say future                                                                            
spent years behind civics wit thought cool didnt understand setup part back biting opposition within political arena become realize beyond reproach adultery privacy concern                                                        
politics                                                                               
want get finish movie                                                                            
great                                                                               
yes see everything whole                                                                            
become moderate                                                                              
days loosing become award state                                                                           
racily                                                                               
id rather share                                                                             
finding seeing hand us                                                                            
yes                                                                               
experienced injustice justice system                                                                            
one interested due education jail county jail ever seen life time                                                                     
yes vote dont vote cant complain                                                                          
feel like                                                                              
every day learning experience                                                                            
like everything political feel everything                                                                           
dont answer                                                                              
want part world make                                                                            
think need exercise                                                                             
ever since let nigger become country went                                                                         
think everything since locked                                                                            
political mostly legal system experienced hand sad say experience shown legal system flawed foundation turn hold little faith justice system rehabilitate reincorporate society contrary experience shown government easier already offended return prison fashion revolving door found becoming victim recidivism one incarceration commit crime however serve sentence turn payed debt society dont feel fair many like disadvantage inequality past maybe country needs look crime better understanding               
yes feel left little                                                                            
system health                                                                              
patient always                                                                              
watched news                                                                              
think unfair get feel strongly matter weve done time feel get vote could make dont define us                                                               
punishment sometimes harsh crime                                                                            
dont agree law enforcement                                                                            
corrupt law enforcement court like                                                                           
become aware massive corruption inherent system                                                                          
democrat                                                                               
yes prior prison relatively since confinement concept                                                                         
yes since prison thinking pattern lock good believe nd chance                                                                      
yes involved see hand whats going corruption unfairness say one thing dont make want involved could something help                                                              
yes mass incarceration sent prison every little reason justice system broken                                                                     
yes president political completely                                                                            
